￼






Water heating

Incentives water heating
Other water heater
Heat pump water heaters
Heat pump water heaters
￼
Get up to $400 cash back
APPLY ONLINE APPLY BY MAIL FIND A CONTRACTOR
￼
Get up to $600 cash back
APPLY ONLINE APPLY BY MAIL FIND A CONTRACTOR
A hot deal on heat pump water heaters
Save big when you upgrade to a high-performance heat pump water heater. Earn cash back on your purchase and watch your water heating costs drop. Energy efficient electric hybrid (also known as heat pump) water heaters can use less than half the energy of a standard electric storage water heater and can save a four-person household up to $350 per year in energy bills.
		Qualifications & Incentives
		Customer Eligibility
		How to Apply
Equipment Purchases and Services
Heat Pump Water Heater Trade Ally Install
Heat Pump Water Heater Customer Self Install
Customer Incentive: $200
Customer Incentive: $400
Trade Ally Incentive: $200
Trade Ally Incentive: N/A
Choose a Qualified Trade Ally from the Wattsmart Vendor Network
	•	The Wattsmart Vendor Network (Network) is a collaboration between Pacific Power and local contractors, distributors, manufacturers, engineers, architects, and other vendors to promote the sales and incentives for the installation of energy-efficient equipment.
	•	Advantages to participating in the Network include: improved visibility, program support and training, access to incentive-specific calculators, qualified business leads, marketing support, and notification of program updates.
	•	Become a Wattsmart Vendor
Ensure the home qualifies:
	•	Heat pump water heater must be installed by a contractor or self-installed by the homeowner
	•	Heat pump water heater must meet the following minimum efficiency criteria
	1	> 45 and ≤ 55 gallons: at least 3.09 or 3.31 Uniform Energy Factor (UEF)
	•	May be an existing home or new construction; single family, multifamily, and manufactured homes all qualify
	•	Previous water heater must be a residential-style electric storage water heater (incentive does not apply when replacing an existing heat pump water heater)
	•	Customer must hire a contractor, who is a qualified Trade Ally from the Wattsmart Vendor Network. Find approved vendors: pacificpower.tradeally.com. Projects completed by contractors not on this list  are not eligible for this incentive.
	•	Installation must meet specifications found in the California Technical Specifications Manual
	•	Incentive application and required  documents must be postmarked within 90 days of work completed date
Required documents:
	•	Itemized receipt or contractor invoice
	•	Application must be submitted within 90 days of purchasing your new energy-efficient product
	•	Third Party Payment Addendum for applicants who would like to forward payment to a third party not listed on the utility account
	•	IRS W-9 Form, if applicable* *Applicable only to businesses and non-individual customers, including landlords, applying for incentives
 Incentives are associated with the Home Energy Savings program June 15, 2023 tariff filing approved by the California Public Utilities Commission. All incentives are subject to change with 45 days notice. Additional terms and conditions may apply. 
Plumbing & water heating

Incentives for plumbing & water heating
Heat pump water heaters





© 2023 Pacific Power, a division of PacifiCorp and part of Berkshire Hathaway Energy.
￼
￼
