Skip to main content
PAGE MENU
X


Main Menu Links
		RPU HOMEPAGE
		RESIDENTS
		BUSINESSES
		DEVELOPERS
		PROJECTS
		ABOUT RPU
		MEDIA
		Pay Your Bill
		Outages
		Help?
		
		
		
		
		
City Links
		RiversideCA.gov
		Engage Riverside
		Shop Riverside
		Public Utilities
		Homeless Solutions
		RIVERSIDECA.GOV ENGAGE RIVERSIDE SHOP RIVERSIDE PUBLIC UTILITIES HOMELESS SOLUTIONS




RIVERSIDE PUBLIC UTILITIES
￼
		Pay Your Bill
		Outages
		Help?
		
		
		

		Residents
		Businesses
		Developers
		Projects
		About RPU
		Media

		Residents Rebates Electrify Riverside
		Start/Stop Service 
		Utility Bill
		Assistance Programs 
		Rates 
		Rebates 
		Solar Info 
		Our Water 
		Our Energy 
		Customer Communications
		Contact Us
Electrify Riverside

Thinking of buying or leasing an electric vehicle (EV), or already own one? Our Electrify Your Ride EV Rebates can help you save!
￼

 
Used EV Rebate
Get up to a $1,000 rebate for a used Battery Electric or Plug-In Hybrid vehicle if purchased or leased after January 1, 2023. Qualified low-income customers enrolled in RPU's SHARE program are eligible to receive an increased rebate of up to $2500!

Program Guidelines
Eligibility & Application

 
EV Level 2 Residential Charger Rebate
Electric vehicle drivers who install a Level 2 (240-Volt AC) plug-in charger at their residence in the service territory of Riverside Public Utilities, on or after July 1, 2021, are eligible for up to a $500 rebate.

Program Guidelines
Eligibility & Application

 
Time-of-Use EV Rate Meter Rebate
RPU customers have an opportunity to charge their electric vehicles using a separate Time-of-Use (TOU) meter provided by RPU. Eligible customers can receive up to a $805 rebate to cover the cost of the EV meter adapter installation, in addition to, incentives available for the EV Level 2 Residential Charger Rebate. Learn about the EV Rate guidelines and application process here.

 
Know Before You Buy - EV Checklist
What is a sufficient operating range based on how far you will travel?
Where and how will you charge your vehicle?
	◦	Are there public charging stations near you? Learn about the different charging options:
	•	Alternative Fuels Data Center
	•	Drive Clean
	•	Plug Share

Will you require an EV charger at home?
	◦	If so, will your current home electrical panel support a Level 1 or Level 2 charger, or will an electrical panel upgrade be required?

Learn more about RPU EV Rates.

 
Electric Vehicle FAQs
View answers to your most frequently asked electric vehicle-related questions.

What should I consider before purchasing an electric vehicle?
What are the types of electric vehicle chargers?
How does a plug-in electric vehicle work?
How does a battery electric vehicle work?
How does a plug-in hybrid electric vehicle work?
What are the typical maintenance costs of an electric vehicle?
Are there conveniently located charging stations where I can charge my electric vehicle?
What are the environmental benefits of an electric vehicle?
What are the driving benefits of an electric vehicle?
What are the financial benefits of owning an electric vehicle?
How does paying for kilowatt hours compare to buying gasoline?
How will having solar panels impact the cost of charging an electric vehicle?

 
Other Program Incentives & Resources


Clean Vehicle Rebate Program (CVRP)
Administered by the Center for Sustainable Energy for the California Air Resources Board, the Clean Vehicle Rebate Project (CVRP) provides rebates of up to $7,000 for the purchase or lease of new electric and plug-in hybrid vehicles.

Clean Vehicle Assistance Program
Administered by the CARB, this program is for low-income customers only and provides grants of up to $5,000 for the purchase or lease a new or used hybrid or electric vehicle. Can be combined with the CVRP too.

Carpool Lane Sticker
Qualifying PEV and Plug-In Hybrid EV owners are eligible to ride in the high occupancy vehicle (HOV) lane by obtaining a Clean Air Vehicle (CAV) sticker.

Discounted Toll Lanes
If you drive a pure zero-emission vehicle (100% battery electric or hydrogen fuel cell), you may be eligible for a Special Access account on the 91 express lanes. Vehicles displaying a current DMV-issued CAV sticker may be eligible for a 15% discount on the I-10 and I-110 Metro Expresslane.

Medium and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
The Hybrid and Zero-Emission Truck and Bus Voucher Incentive Project helps ALL fleets buy hybrid and battery-electric trucks and buses.
 

Learn more about electric cars and the different charging options.

￼
 

￼
 



CALeVIP Southern California Level 2 Incentive Project
CALeVIP’s Southern California Level 2 Incentive Project is a $23 million program to support the installation of Level 2 charging stations in Los Angeles, Orange, Riverside, or San Bernardino Counties. Applying online is easy and funds are reserved on a first-come first-served basis. Learn more about the incentives now!
LEARN MORE
￼
HOME
		
		Residents
		Government
		Business
		Services
		Media
		Connect
		Jobs
POPULAR
		City Departments
		Mayor
		City Council
		Library
		Museum
		Parks and Recreation
		Public Utilities
CONTACT
		Who to Call at City Hall
		311 Services
		Email Call Center
		Email Webmaster
RESOURCES
		Charter and Municipal Code
		Our Awards
		Media Page
		Community Calendar
		Mobile Apps
		EngageRiverside
 
￼  City of Riverside    


Copyright Â© 2016 City of Riverside | Accessibility Policy | Website Disclaimer | Privacy Policy
