
Skip navigation
￼
CITY OF ROSEVILLE

	•		•	 A- A+
		Translate



City of Roseville » Government » Departments & Divisions » Electric Utility » Rebates & Energy Savings » Residential Electrification  » Electric Vehicle Programs

Skip Sidebar Navigation
Home
Last item for navigation

Electric Vehicle Programs

￼

It's a great time to drive an EV.  

Savings, convenience, and a positive impact on the environment - all good reasons to charge ahead with the purchase of an electric vehicle (EV).  EVs are a critical step toward reducing pollution and, when you factor in fuel and maintenance savings, they can be cheaper than gas powered cars. Since Roseville Electric Utility's electricity is cheaper than gas, charging your car is like paying less than $1.50 for a gallon of gas. 

  ￼
 Explore PlugStar today and find the vehicle that is right for you.  
Our new online tool helps make EV shopping easy. PlugStar helps you find the EV that best meets your needs and gets you connected with a qualified EV dealer near you. PlugStar can also help you find incentives for electric vehicles and chargers.
￼           ￼
We offer rebates for income-qualified residents who purchase a level 2 charger.  

Our electric vehicle program rebates are made possible by the State of California under the Low Carbon Fuel Standard Program. The funding has decreased significantly in recent years, and we had to reduce our offerings due to limited funds and great interest in electric vehicles. We appreciate your interest in switching from gas to electric vehicles.  All residents are encouraged to check out the PlugStar incentives tool for a list of federal and state incentives that are available now. 

Commercial EV Program
EV Charging Stations
Ambassador Program




		Email 
		Facebook Page 
		Twitter Feed 
		Nextdoor ￼
		Youtube Channel 
		Instagram Page 
		Everbridge ￼
City of Roseville
311 Vernon St.
Roseville, California 95678
Contact UsAgendas & MinutesOpen DataFiscally SoundStay Informed

City of Roseville | All Rights Reserved | Privacy Policy | Powered by CivicLive | © 2023 Civiclive.
