	•	
	•	(970) 827-9725
	•	LOCATION / HOURS
	•	MEMBERSHIP
	•	ESPAÑOL
￼
		visit
		Avon Tang Campus
		Avon Tang Campus Located near Centura Health in Avon right off of I-70. An innovative natural science learning campus for residents and visitors of the Eagle Valley. Free and open to the public. 318 Walking Mountains Lane, Avon, CO 81620 970.827.9725   More information 
		￼
		Nature Discovery Center, Vail
		Nature Discovery Center, Vail Mountain Located at the top of the Eagle Bahn Gondola on Vail Mountain out of Lionshead Village, Vail. All visitors must have a pass to ride the gondola. Free and open to the public with valid gondola pass. 970.754.4675  More Information  
		￼
		Vail Nature Center
		Vail Nature Center Nestled along Gore Creek near the Betty Ford Alpine Garden and Gerald R. Ford Amphitheater in Vail Village. 601 Vail Valley Drive, Vail, CO 81657 970.479.2291  More information 
		￼
		things to do
		For Kids
		Early Childhood Programs
		Summer Camps
		For Parents & Teachers
		Early Childhood School Programs
		Online Learning Resources
		STEM Programs
		Discover Nature
		Guided Public Backcountry Hikes
		Free Guided Nature Walks
		Workshops Lectures & Films
		The Sustainable Film Series
		Climate Speaker Series
		Drinkering & Tinkering
		The Science Behind Series
		Free Recycling Tours
		Events By Location
		Avon Tang Campus
		Nature Discovery Center (Vail Mtn.)
		Vail Nature Center
		Special Events
		Climb It For Climate
		Climate Action Week
		A Taste of Nature
		Custom Programs
		Private & Group Programs
		For Donors
		EdVenture Series
		Winter Activities
		Free Snowshoe Experiences
		Guided Backcountry Snowshoe Hikes
		initiatives
		School Initiatives
		School Field Science Programs
		STEM Programs
		Interns & Graduate Programs
		Foley Graduate Fellowship
		Conservation Internship Program
		Community Initiatives
		Eagle Valley Outdoor Movement
		Sustainability Initiatives
		Climate Action Collaborative
		Vail Sustainable Destination
		sustainability hub
		Sustainability Hub
		Walking Mountains Sustainability
		Read Our Sustaining Mountains Blog
		Climate Action
		Climate Action Collaborative
		Climate Speaker Series
		Climate Action Week
		Energy Efficiency
		Energy Efficiency Programs
		Low-Moderate Income (LMI) Household Assistance
		Radon In Homes
		Sustainable Tourism
		Sustainable Destinations
		Mountain IDEAL Training
		Sustainable Business
		Actively Green Program
		Trainings & Workshops
		Sustainable Business Trail Map
		Certified Sustainable Businesses
		Recycling & Waste Reduction
		Waste Diversion and Reduction
		Make Your Event Zero Waste
		support
		Support Our Mission
		Donate Now
		Donor Giving Levels
		Ways To Give
		Donor FAQ's
		Support Our Initiatives
		Overview and Impact of Your Support
		Annual Giving
		Endowment and Planned Giving
		Special Events
		Partners & Supporters
		Corporate Partners
		Grant Partners
		Other Ways To Support
		Volunteer With Us!
		Good Traveler Program - Offset Your Travel Emissions
		
		about us
		About Us
		Mission, Vision, History & Values
		Annual Reports & Financials
		Committed To Sustainability
		Our Culture Of Sustainability
		Our LEED Certified Campus
		Our Team
		Meet Our Team
		Board of Directors
		Get In Touch
		Contact Us
		Work With Us
		Why Walking Mountains
		Join Our Team
		Internships & Fellowships
		Corporate Partners
		Follow Us
		Blog
		Join Our Email List
		Our Videos
		￼

Town and Municipality Specific Rebates
Many towns or municipalities in the Eagle River Valley are taking matters into their own hands to help us be more energy-efficient and meet local Climate Action Plan goals. These rebates are in addition to all base Energy Smart Colorado rebates available here.
Don’t see your town below? Contact an Energy Coach to see what is available in your town.
*Rebate funds are limited and available on a first-come-first-served basis. 
￼
Town Of Vail
The Town of Vail Community Energy Efficiency Program in partnership with Walking Mountains offers:
>Bonus for weatherization, energy efficiency, and safety >Energy Storage- Battery Rebate >Solar PV rebates >Electric Vehicles and EV Charging rebates >These are complementary to standard Walking Mountains rebates

￼
Town of Avon
The Town of Avon Community Energy Efficiency Program in partnership with Walking Mountains offers:
>Bonus rebates for weatherization, energy efficiency, and safety >Solar PV rebates >These are complementary to standard Walking Mountains rebates

￼
Town of Eagle
The Town of Eagle Energy Efficiency Program in partnership with Walking Mountains offers:
>Bonus rebates for weatherization, energy efficiency, and safety >Solar PV rebates >These are complementary to standard Walking Mountains rebates

￼
Unincorporated Eagle County
Eagle County in partnership with Walking Mountains offers:
>Solar PV rebates >These are complementary to standard Walking Mountains rebates

￼
Edwards Metro District
The Edwards Metro District Community Energy Efficiency Program in partnership with Walking Mountains offers:
>Bonus for weatherization, energy efficiency, and safety >Energy Storage- Battery Rebates >Electric Vehicles and EV Charging rebates >These are complementary to standard Walking Mountains rebates

Meet some of the program team members
￼

Diego Betts
Energy Programs Coordinator
￼

Cody Kumar
Energy Programs Coordinator
￼

Nikki Maline
Energy Programs Director

 

Upcoming Sustainability Events

￼

Sustainable Film Series: Switch On

Feb 7
February 7 @ 6:30 pm |

More Info ￼
￼

Sustainable Business Advanced Certification Training

Feb 16
February 16 @ 10:00 am | Walking Mountains Science Center
Want to make change at your work to improve sustainability performance? Eager to incorporate more green business strategies? Ready for international recognition at an individual level? Take the next s...
More Info ￼
￼

Climate Speaker Series: Darren Parry, Former Chairman of the Northwestern Band of the Shoshone Nation

Feb 16
February 16 @ 6:00 pm |
The Climate Speaker Series is generously sponsored by Don & Jennifer Holzworth. The Climate Speaker Series brings in leading experts from a variety of backgrounds to explore the creative solutions...
More Info ￼
￼

Free Community Recycling Tour Q1

Feb 28
February 28 @ 9:00 am | Partner Location
Join us for a FREE recycling tour of the Eagle County materials recovery, landfill, and household hazardous waste facilities! This guided tour is open to all through our quarterly community […]...
More Info ￼
￼

Sustainable Film Series: Reflection: A Walk With Water

Mar 7
March 7 @ 6:30 pm |

More Info ￼
￼

Climate Speaker Series: Will Toor, Executive Director, Colorado Energy Office

Mar 9
March 9 @ 6:00 pm |
The Climate Speaker Series is generously sponsored by Don & Jennifer Holzworth. The Climate Speaker Series brings in leading experts from a variety of backgrounds to explore the creative solutions...
More Info ￼

￼
Stay Informed

Email*

￼
Location/Hours
Avon Tang Campus Hours & Directions Call
Vail Nature Center Hours & Directions Call
Nature Discovery Center Hours & Directions Call
		￼
		￼
		￼
		￼
		￼
Admission
Free Admission
Please See events & programs for cost
Contact
Call (970) 827-9725
		
2019 © Walking Mountains Science Center, Walking Mountains Science Center is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization.
To awaken a sense of wonder and inspire environmental stewardship and sustainability through natural science education.
		Terms and Conditions |
		Privacy Policy |
		Special Use Permits
<iframe src="https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-598KT52" height="0" width="0" style="display:none;visibility:hidden"></iframe>