Town of Vail Community Energy Efficiency Program
￼
￼
Town of Vail has specified bonuses and additional rebates for it’s residents, employees, and businesses that can be used in combination with Energy Smart rebates through Walking Mountains Science Center. These rebates are in addition to all base Energy Smart Colorado rebates available here.

Bonus Rebates
$500 per property
Weatherization BONUS available for completing air-sealing and/or insulation on a home/building 
Must already be approved for a regular rebate for air-sealing and or insulation from the Energy Smart CO program at Walking Mountains. Contact an energy coach for more details.
Heat Pump BONUS available for completing installation of a heat pump for space heating/cooling
Must already be approved for a regular rebate for a heat pump from the Energy Smart CO program at Walking Mountains. Contact an energy coach for more details.


Solar PV Rebates
available for installation of renewable generation for net metering at a home or business
Must be approved for a Holy Cross Energy Renewables Rebate or Xcel Energy Solar Rewards
$1,000 per property


Electric Vehicles and EV Charging
Available for purchasing an electric vehicle or installation of new EV charging infrastructure by Town of Vail residents, employees, or businesses
$1,000 per property (not to exceed 50% of project costs)
Electric Vehicles – Town of Vail
Must be used when driving in/around Vail
Must provide the following information: copy of vehicle registration, amount paid, make/model
EV Charging Infrastructure – Town of Vail
Homes are encouraged to look into Holy Cross Energy’s Charge at Home program for a free Level 2 charger. www.holycross.com/charge‐at‐home
Businesses and HOA’s are encouraged to look into Charge Ahead Colorado grant funding for community based Level 2 and DC fast‐charging (DCFC) electric vehicle charging stations. https://energyoffice.colorado.gov/transportation/grants‐incentives/charge‐ahead‐colorado



Energy Storage- Battery Rebate (with or without Solar PV)
available for installation of one or more batteries that store energy for powering homes and buildings, located at a home or business, connected to the electricity grid; May be charged by the electric grid or by renewable energy on the home (Solar PV) 
new construction is OK
$1000 per property (not to exceed 50% of homeowners out of pocket expense)
Must provide the following: photo of installed battery/batteries, and invoice (must be itemized and include battery type/model and capacity)



General Rules & Requirements (for ALL Projects)
These are in addition to project-specific requirements (which are detailed above).

Home Energy Assessment or Business Energy Walkthrough is required prior to a rebate being processed, and preferred prior to implementing upgrades.
Must apply for the rebate online within 90 days of the date on the paid invoice.
Must provide proof (photos) of the completed project.
Provide an electronic version of your invoice(s)/receipt(s), and any applicable spec sheets, which can be uploaded as part of the online application or emailed to your Walking Mountains energy coach.
Project costs may include materials and labor costs; no tax or permit expenses are included.
Rebates are for existing buildings only.
Rebate checks will be distributed within 4-6 weeks of receiving the completed rebate application & providing all required documentation.
Colorado state regulation requires proper disposal of mercury-containing lamps (HIDs, all linear and u-bend fluorescents, CFLs, 2- 4-pin CFLs, and circular fluorescent, as an example).
Rebates may be assigned to the contractor completing the project, and this credit must be shown on the invoice.
Walking Mountains reserves the right to inspect the project after completion.
Walking Mountains is not liable or responsible for any act or omission of any party, consumer, or contractor whatsoever. Walking Mountains is not liable for rebates promised to consumers as a result of a contractor misrepresenting the program.
Rebates are subject to change and/or discontinue without notice. Funding is limited. Applications will be accepted on a first-come, first-serve basis.
Walking Mountains reserves the right to refuse payment and participation if the consumer or contractor violates program rules and procedures.


*Rebate funds are limited and available on a first-come-first-served basis. 
Specific rebate details shown above are annual max amounts per household (which may go towards one or more projects until max is reached). All rebate rules listed above apply. Each measure has specific requirements to qualify, please talk with an Energy Coach at Walking Mountains before starting your project.