Town of Eagle Community Energy Efficiency Program
￼
￼
Town of Eagle has specified bonuses and additional rebates for it’s residents and businesses that can be used in addition to Energy Smart rebates through Walking Mountains Science Center.  Base Energy Smart rebates available here. 
Contact an Energy Coach to get started!
Solar PV Rebates
available for installation of renewable generation for net metering at a home or business
Must be approved for a Holy Cross Energy Renewables Rebate or Xcel Energy Solar Rewards
$1,000 per property



Bonus Rebates
$500 per property
Weatherization BONUS available for completing air-sealing and/or insulation on a home/building 
Must already be approved for a regular rebate for air-sealing and or insulation from the Energy Smart CO program at Walking Mountains. Contact an energy coach for more details.
Heat Pump BONUS available for completing installation of a heat pump for space heating/cooling
Must already be approved for a regular rebate for a heat pump from the Energy Smart CO program at Walking Mountains. Contact an energy coach for more details.



General Rules & Requirements (for ALL Projects)
These are in addition to project-specific requirements (which are detailed above).
Home Energy Assessment or Business Energy Walkthrough is required prior to a rebate being processed, and preferred prior to implementing upgrades.
Must apply for the rebate online within 90 days of the date on the paid invoice.
Must provide proof (photos) of the completed project.
Provide an electronic version of your invoice(s)/receipt(s), and any applicable spec sheets, which can be uploaded as part of the online application or emailed to your Walking Mountains energy coach.
Project costs may include materials and labor costs; no tax or permit expenses are included.
Rebates are for existing buildings only.
Rebate checks will be distributed within 4-6 weeks of receiving the completed rebate application & providing all required documentation.
Colorado state regulation requires proper disposal of mercury-containing lamps (HIDs, all linear and u-bend fluorescents, CFLs, 2- 4-pin CFLs, and circular fluorescent, as an example).
Rebates may be assigned to the contractor completing the project, and this credit must be shown on the invoice.
Walking Mountains reserves the right to inspect the project after completion.
Walking Mountains is not liable or responsible for any act or omission of any party, consumer, or contractor whatsoever. Walking Mountains is not liable for rebates promised to consumers as a result of a contractor misrepresenting the program.
Rebates are subject to change and/or discontinue without notice. Funding is limited. Applications will be accepted on a first-come, first-serve basis.
Walking Mountains reserves the right to refuse payment and participation if the consumer or contractor violates program rules and procedures.




*Rebate funds are limited and available on a first-come-first-served basis. 
Specific rebate details shown above are annual max amounts per household (which may go towards one or more projects until max is reached). All rebate rules listed on this page apply. Each measure has specific requirements to qualify, please talk with an Energy Coach at Walking Mountains before starting your project.


