









￼


< Back to all Rebates
￼

Boulder County Residential Rebates
Funded by the county’s Sustainability Tax.
The following rebates are available to EnergySmart participants residing in Boulder County (sign up here). Rebates can be combined with any relevant municipality or utility incentive.
In order to receive a rebate residents must work with an EnergySmart advisor and pre-qualify before making a purchase or beginning a project. Additional requirements are listed at the bottom of this page. 
To get started, contact an EnergySmart advisor at 303-544-1000 or email info@EnergySmartYes.com. See our Rebate FAQs.
Heat Pump Rebates
￼
"Cold Climate" Ducted Air Source Heat Pump

25% of project cost, up to $300
Equipment must meet the following requirements:
	1	HSPF ≥9.0, SEER≥15.0, COP ≥ 1.75@5◦F
	1	OR capacity @ 5◦F of at least 70% of BTU @ 47◦F. 
	2	Must be NEEP.org certified
	3	Must have thermostatic expansion valve within the appliance
"Cold Climate" Ductless (Mini-Split) Air Source Heat Pump

"Non-Cold Climate" Ducted Air Source Heat Pump

"Non-Cold Climate" Ductless (Mini-Split) Air Source Heat Pump

Ground Source Heat Pump

Removal of Gas Furnace or Boiler

Weatherization Rebates
￼
Attic Insulation with Air Sealing

25% of project cost, up to $100
Requirements:
	1	R-49 minimum required in open attic; cathedral ceilings will vary with rafter depth but must meet requirements of 2012 IECC
	2	Must perform air sealing in attics prior to adding insulation. Air sealing requirements include the sealing of the void directly above all accessible exterior top plates in attic space.
	3	Combustion Appliance Zone (CAZ) testing must occur as a health/safety measure before and after the upgrade
Wall Insulation

Foundation (Basement or Crawl Space) Insulation and Air Sealing

Marshall Fire Attic, Wall, Basement, and Crawlspace Insulation Removal

Water Heating Rebates
￼
ENERGY STAR Electric Heat Pump Water Heater

25% of project cost, up to $100
Requirements:
	1	Must be Energy Star certified
	2	Must have a minimum Energy Factor of 2.0
	3	Combustion Appliance Zone (CAZ) testing must occur as a health/safety measure before and after the upgrade
Removal of Gas Water Heater

Stove Rebates
￼
Gas Stove Removal

$100
Must be replacing a gas stove with an electric (induction or resistance) stove. Built-in, drop-in, & freestanding units only (portable stoves not eligible).
Proof of purchase and “before & after” photos required.
Solar Rebates
￼
Rooftop or Ground-Mounted Solar

25% of project cost, up to $200
Requirements:
	1	Equipment must be installed by NABCEP certified installer only
	2	Must be completed in conjunction with installing an air or ground source heat pump or owning an electric vehicle
All rebates are also listed on this PDF.
The following conditions apply to all of the listed rebates:
	1	Rebates are only available to EnergySmart participants (sign up here) who live in the area defined by each rebate.
	2	You must sign up and complete pre-project qualification before purchasing an eligible appliance or completing the energy efficiency project.
	3	Rebate funds are limited, are subject to change, and will be awarded on a first-come, first-served basis.
	4	Rebate awards will be based on the levels published at the time that an invoice for work completed has been submitted to EnergySmart.
	5	All work must be completed and invoiced between January 1, 2023 – December 31, 2023.
	6	Total lifetime maximum of all heat pump, weatherization, water heater, and stove rebates cannot exceed $1,800/home and $6,000/owner of multiple properties (including past EnergySmart rebates).
	7	Rebates cannot exceed the cost of the measure after all other rebates are applied
	8	All upgrades must be for or directly benefit unit occupants. (e.g. Only upper units can receive an attic insulation rebate when applying for multiple unit rebates)
	9	*Multi-Family Units of 5 or more are not eligible for EnergySmart rebates.  Contact PACE to learn more about rebates available for Multi-Family properties with 5 or more units
	1	All work must meet all applicable building or energy codes, and all required permits must be obtained.
Additional requirements may include:
	1	Combustion Appliance Zone (CAZ) testing must occur as a health/safety measure before and after the upgrade depending on the type of upgrade.
	1	Please feel free to speak with your Advisor about the importance of CAZ testing.
	2	For certain measures, proof of purchase, installation, and other verification measures may be required, consult with an advisor to learn more
	3	Fuel Switching Rebates may require additional verification to ensure removal of gas systems.
	1	Please contact an Energy Advisor to discuss improvements and verification of these rebates. Invoices and pictures are part of the rebate process.
 
Check out the EnergySmart’s rebate FAQ to find answers to commonly asked questions.
EnergySmart Advisors are available to help you complete and submit your application for all eligible rebates. Call us today at 303.544.1000 or email us at info@energysmartyes.com.
Overwhelmed by rebates?
We get it–there’s a lot out there! That’s why we partnered with Canopy to bring you free, personalized guidance on where to start and match you with the rebates that work best for your home.

￼
< Back to all Rebates
￼

Sign up for our Newsletter!


CONTACT
Copyright © 2022. Boulder County EnergySmart. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy and Legal Information

