









￼


< Back to all Rebates
￼

Boulder County Manufactured Home Rebates
Funded by the County’s Sustainability Tax. 
The following rebates are available to EnergySmart participants to make improvements to their manufactured homes in Boulder County (sign up here). Rebates can be combined with any relevant municipality or utility incentive.
In order to receive a rebate residents must work with an EnergySmart advisor and pre-qualify before making a purchase or beginning a project. Additional requirements are listed at the bottom of this page. 
To get started, contact an EnergySmart advisor at 303-544-1000 or email info@EnergySmartYes.com.
Heating and Cooling Rebates
￼
"Cold Climate" Ducted Air Source Heat Pump

"Cold Climate" Ductless (Mini-Split) Air Source Heat Pump

"Non-Cold Climate" Ducted Air Source Heat Pump

"Non-Cold Climate" Ductless (Mini-Split) Air Source Heat Pump

Portable Heat Pump

Non-portable Evaporative Cooler

Portable Evaporative Cooler

Removal of Gas Furnace

Smart Thermostat

Weatherization Rebates
￼
Ceiling/Attic Insulation

Wall Insulation

Underbelly and Behind Exterior Skirting “Burrito” Insulation

Storm Windows

Insulated or Cellular Shades

Water Heating Rebates
￼
ENERGY STAR Electric Heat Pump Water Heater or Electric Water Heater

25% of project cost up to $250
Must be ENERGY STAR certified.
Removal of Gas Water Heater

Stove Rebates
￼
All-Electric Cooktop

25% of project cost up to $250
Only for new all-electric built-in, drop-in & freestanding units only (portable stoves not eligible). Proof of purchase and before & after installation photos required.
Electric resistance to electric resistance stove replacement is not rebate eligible.
Removal of Gas Stove

Clothing Dryer Rebates
￼
Heat Pump Clothing Dryer

25% of project cost up to $250
Must be ENERGY STAR certified.
Removal of Gas Clothing Dryer

Miscellaneous Rebates
￼
Electric Panel Upgrade

Permit and Building Inspection Fees

All rebates are also listed on this PDF.
The following conditions apply to all listed rebates:
	1	Rebates are only available to EnergySmart participants (sign up here) who live in Boulder county and are working on improving manufactured homes.
	2	You must sign up and complete pre-project qualification before purchasing an eligible appliance or completing the energy efficiency project.
	3	Rebate funds are limited, are subject to change, and will be awarded on a first-come, first-served basis.
	4	Rebate awards will be based on the levels published at the time that an invoice for work completed has been submitted to EnergySmart.
	5	All work must be completed and invoiced between January 1, 2023 – December 31, 2023.
	6	Total lifetime maximum of all heat pump, weatherization, water heater, and stove rebates cannot exceed $1,800/home and $6,000/owner of multiple properties (including past EnergySmart rebates).
	7	Rebates cannot exceed the cost of the measure after all other rebates are applied
	8	All upgrades must be for or directly benefit unit occupants. (e.g. Only upper units can receive an attic insulation rebate when applying for multiple unit rebates)
	9	All work must meet all applicable building or energy codes, and all required permits must be obtained.
Additional requirements may include:
	1	Combustion Appliance Zone (CAZ) testing must occur as a health/safety measure before and after the upgrade depending on the type of upgrade.
	1	Please feel free to speak with your Advisor about the importance of CAZ testing.
	2	For certain measures, proof of purchase, installation, and other verification measures may be required, consult with an advisor to learn more
	3	Fuel Switching Rebates may require additional verification to ensure removal of gas systems.
	1	Please contact an Energy Advisor to discuss improvements and verification of these rebates. Invoices and pictures are part of the rebate process.
Check out the EnergySmart’s rebate FAQ to find answers to commonly asked questions.
EnergySmart Advisors are available to help you complete and submit your application for all eligible rebates. Call us today at 303.544.1000 or email us at info@energysmartyes.com.
Overwhelmed by rebates?
We get it–there’s a lot out there! That’s why we partnered with Canopy to bring you free, personalized guidance on where to start and match you with the rebates that work best for your home.

￼
< Back to all Rebates
￼

Sign up for our Newsletter!


CONTACT
Copyright © 2022. Boulder County EnergySmart. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy and Legal Information

