City of Boulder Residential Rebates
Funded by the city’s Climate Action Plan (CAP) Tax and Solar Rebate Ordinance. 
The following rebates are available to EnergySmart participants residing in the City of Boulder (sign up here). Rebates can be combined with any relevant county or utility incentive.
In order to receive a rebate residents must work with an EnergySmart advisor and pre-qualify before making a purchase or beginning a project. Additional requirements are listed at the bottom of this page. 
Residents are limited to ONE $650 rebate, ONE $400 rebate, and THREE $250 rebates per household.
To get started, contact an EnergySmart advisor at 303-544-1000 or email info@EnergySmartYes.com.


Heat Pump Rebates
￼
“Cold Climate” Rated Ducted Air Source Heat Pump (ASHP)

“Cold Climate” Rated Ductless Air Source Heat Pump (ASHP)

ENERGY STAR Ground Source Heat Pump with Desuperheater

ENERGY STAR Ground Source Heat Pump without Desuperheater

“Non-Cold” Climate Ducted Air Source Heat Pump (ASHP)

“Non-Cold” Climate Ductless Air Source Heat Pump (ASHP)

Natural Gas Furnace or Boiler Removal*

Modify Natural Gas Furnace with Heat Pump Add-On

Weatherization Rebates
￼
Attic Insulation and Air Sealing

Wall Insulation

Foundation (Crawl Space or Basement) Insulation & Air Sealing

Sub-Floor or Frame Floor Insulation & Air Sealing

Professionally Applied Air Sealing (No Do-It-Yourself!)

Duct Insulation

Water Heating Rebates
￼
ENERGY STAR Electric Heat Pump Water Heater

Remove Natural Gas Water Heater

Solar Rebates
￼
Solar PV and Solar Thermal Grant

Solar PV and Solar Thermal Tax Rebate

Solar PV Fuel Switching

Stove Rebates
￼
Remove Natural Gas Stove/Cooktop

A PDF of all City of Boulder Rebates can be found here.
Rebates are only available to EnergySmart participants and for the measures listed. Engagement in EnergySmart and pre-project qualification must occur before purchasing an eligible appliance or completing the energy efficiency project for which a rebate is being applied for. • Rebates and grants are only available for upgrades completed on residential units within the City of Boulder and are funded by the City of Boulder’s Climate Action Plan (CAP) tax and Solar Rebate Ordinance. • Rebate and grant funds are limited, subject to change, and will be awarded on a first-come, first-served basis. • Rebates and grants will be awarded based on the levels published at the time that an invoice for work completed has been submitted to EnergySmart. • To be eligible for EnergySmart services, rebates and grants, all work must meet all applicable building or energy codes, all required permits must be obtained, and Combustion Appliance Zone (CAZ) testing must occur as a health/safety measure before and after the upgrade depending on the type of upgrade. • Unless otherwise specified, any product or installation must meet current ENERGY STAR standards at minimum, if such standards exist for that given product or application. • Rebates and grants cannot exceed the cost of the upgrade after all other rebates are applied. • Total rebate dollars awarded will not exceed 50% of the total project cost. • All work and eligible upgrades must be installed, completed and invoiced between January 1, 2023 – December 31, 2023 to qualify for these rebates. • Solar installations must be completed within 12 months of grant approval. • Bundled fuel switching upgrades may require additional verification to ensure displacement and/or replacement. Please contact an EnergySmart Advisor early to discuss improvements and verification for these rebates. Invoices and pictures are part of the rebate process. • For Air Source Heat Pumps (ASHPs): A thermostatic expansion valve (TXV) is required to help regulate refrigerant flow to the indoor components with precision and efficiency. • For Attic Insulation and Air Sealing: Air sealing requirements include the sealing of the void directly above all accessible exterior top plates in attic space.
Overwhelmed by rebates?
We get it–there’s a lot out there! That’s why we partnered with Canopy to bring you free, personalized guidance on where to start and match you with the rebates that work best for your home.

￼
< Back to all Rebates
￼

Sign up for our Newsletter!


CONTACT
Copyright © 2022. Boulder County EnergySmart. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy and Legal Information

