Rebates & Incentives
Wi-Fi Thermostat Rebates
Corn Belt Energy through the Power Moves program is pleased to offer a Wi-Fi thermostat Rebate. Members that install a qualifying Wi-Fi thermostat can apply for a $45 rebate by clicking the link below. 
For a list of qualifying Wi-Fi thermostats Click Here For More Information  
To apply for a Wi-Fi thermostat rebate Click Here To Apply
   
Pool Pump Rebates
Considering replacing your single speed pool pump with a variable speed model? Be sure to purchase an ENERGY STAR® pool pump and you will qualify for a $250 rebate. Limit one rebate per member. Click here for the rebate form. 
Geothermal Comfort Systems
Considering replacing your existing geothermal with a new geothermal system? Be sure to purchase a system with an electric backup and you will qualify for a $750 rebate. Qualifying geothermermal heat pumps must meet or exceed the following efficiency rating: Water to Air geothermal efficiency requirments of an EER* ≥ 21.1 and a COP** ≥ 4.1  Water to Water geothermal efficiency requirements of an EER ≥ and a COP ≥ 3.5   
* EER - Energy Efficiency Ratio: a measurement of the energy required by a cooling system as it attempts to maintain indoor comfort when the outdoor temperature is at a specific temperature—usually 95°F. The term EER is most commonly used when referring to window air conditioners and geothermal heat pumps. EER equals the number of Btu-per-hour worth of cooling provided at the specified outdoor temperature divided by the number of watts used to provide that level of cooling. 
** COP - Coefficient of Performance: a measurement of a heat pump's efficiency (in the heating mode) at a specific outdoor temperature—usually 47°F. A COP of 1.0 indicates that for each unit of energy being used, an equal amount of energy (in the form of heat) is being provided by the system. A heat pump with a COP of 3.0 would provide three times as much energy in heat as it consumes in electricity when the outdoor temperature is 47°F. COP is also sometimes used to measure the single-temperature cooling efficiency of chillers. 
 ￼
Air Source Heat Pump Rebates
Qualifying air source heat pumps must meet a minimum cooling efficiency rating of equal to or greater than 15.2 SEER2* and heating efficiency rating equal to or greater than 7.6 HSPF2**.  
Available Air Source Heat Pump Rebates
Heat Pump Rebate by Configuration

All- Electric Air Source Heat Pump
Cold Climate Heat Pump***: $1,500
Non-Cold Climate Heat Pump: $750

Dual Fuel Air Source Heat Pump
Cold Climate Heat Pump*** :   $750
Non-Cold Climate Heat Pump: $500

Mini-Split Air Source Heat Pump
Cold Climate Heat Pump*** :   $600
Non-Cold Climate Heat Pump: $250

 * SEER2 - Seasonal Energy Efficiency Ratio: a measurement of the energy efficiency with which a central cooling system can operate over the course of an entire cooling season.  
 ** HSPF2 - Heating Season Performance Factor: a measurement of an all-electric air-source heat pump's efficiency (in the heating mode) over an entire season. HSPF is calculated by dividing the total number of Btus of heating provided over the entire season by the total number of watt-hours required to operate the system over the season. 
*** Cold Climate Heat Pump is an updated, more efficient version of a typical air source heat pump. Advancements in compressor technology allow these newer heat pumps to gather up heat from outdoors at much, much lower winter temperatures than typical heat pumps. In technical terms, a cold climate heat pump is capable of achieving a coefficient of performance (COP) of at least 1.75 when it is 5 degrees outside. That .75 might not seem like much, but that translates to a big reduction in energy consumption for the homeowner. If a traditional heat pump costs them $400 to heat in a cold winter month, a cold climate heat pump with a COP of 1.75 would lower that cost to roughly $230, a 43% difference. 
 ￼


Electric Water Heater Rebates
If you’re in the market for a new electric water heater, Corn Belt Energy offers several rebate options for members. You can purchase your water heater from any retailer, and we encourage you to buy an energy efficient model with good insulation. To qualify for the rebates, all water heaters must be 40 gallons or greater in capacity.
 
Current Unit Electric water heater, Purchasing Electric water heater: $100.00
Current Unit Propane or natural gas water heater (or new construction), Purchasing Electric water heater: $300.00*
Current Unit Propane or natural gas water heater, Purchasing Hybrid water heater: $800.00
Current Unit Electric water heater, Purchasing Hybrid water heater: $400.00**
Current Unit New construction, Purchasing Hybrid water heater: $800.00**

*Rebate not to exceed purchase price
**Minimum UEF of 3.3.
If you install your new water heater on the basement floor, we suggest you set it on a 1" or 2" Styrofoam insulation pad to prevent heat from migrating to the floor. 
￼
 

Electric Vehicle Charger Rebates
Building a new home or thinking about purchasing an electric vehicle (EV) consider installing an EV charger and receive a rebate from Corn Belt Energy. Corn Belt Energy offers a $100 rebate for new construction, or $200 for retrofit*. Click here to learn more.  For Corn Belt Energy's standby power systems electric vehicle circuit installation instructions, click here.   *Must participate in Corn Belt Energy's EV time of use rate to qualify. 
