SRP Cool Roof Rebate™
Increase your comfort, lower your cooling costs and boost your home’s energy efficiency by taking advantage of the SRP Cool Roof Rebate.

On this page:
Your online application checklist
Apply for the rebate 
On related pages:
Residential rebates
LED lighting
Shade screens & window film
Air conditioner (AC)
Smart thermostat
Insulation
Duct test & repair
Demand management (solar)
Residential EV charger
Heat Pump Water Heater
Using highly reflective paint, cool roofs offer enhanced durability and reduce the amount of solar heat transmitted into your home. A properly installed cool roof can improve your home’s comfort while reducing cooling demand by 10%–15%*.

SRP wants to help keep your home cool for less this summer. Get a rebate of 30 cents per square foot (up to $600) on installed cool roofing material.

Your online application checklist
To complete an SRP Cool Roof Rebate application, you’ll need the following: 

A paid-in-full invoice, including:
The installing contractor/company name, address and Arizona Registrar of Contractors (ROC) license number (if using a contractor)
The date the material was applied to the roof
The address of installation, including unit/apartment numbers
The total square footage of installed cool roofing material (uninhabitable areas such as garages and unfinished patios do not qualify)
All accepted cool roofing products must have a CRRC 3-year Solar Reflectance Index (SRI) of greater than or equal to 86, OR an initial solar reflectance number greater than or equal to .83, OR a 3-year solar reflectance number greater than or equal to .70.
The total cost of installation
A signed Contractor Terms and Conditions formDocument is a PDF if using a contractor
The total square footage of your home
Apply for the rebate 
If using a contractor to install your cool roof, download the Contractor Terms and Conditions agreementDocument is a PDF and have your qualified contractor sign the form. 
 Complete the online application via SRP’s Rebate CenterOpen new site.. By creating an account, you can manage all SRP rebates in one place. You’ll upload the contractor agreement as part of this process.  
If you don’t want to create an account, email your signed contractor agreement (this is only needed if a contractor was used), a dated copy of the paid invoice and a completed copy of the applicationDocument is a PDF to srpinfo@elaz.org.  
Rebate program requirements 
To participate in the SRP Cool Roof Rebate Program, you must: 

Be a permanent SRP residential electric customer 
Live in a single-family detached home, single-family attached home or mobile home/apartment/condo. 
Purchase and install qualifying cool roof materials though a licensed contractor or install the cool roof yourself by April 30, 2024.
New construction homes, and installations over garages, patios or other non-inhabitable spaces do not qualify for the rebate.
Please read the Terms and ConditionsDocument is a PDF for complete program requirements.
Cool Roof installations must occur after May 1, 2023.
The Department of Energy (DOE) offers a Weatherization Assistance ProgramOpen new site. (WAP) available for households with lower incomes that qualify for Supplemental Security Income, Aid to Families with Dependent Children, and other income eligibility criteria. This program includes a home energy assessment and common home improvements such as applying roof coatings to flat roofs that will reduce heat transmission through the roof. Please see the linkOpen new site. for additional information.

Program eligibility  
Home must be cooled with central or mini-split electric refrigerated air conditioning or evaporative cooling. 
Roof products must be rated by the Cool Roof Rating Council (CRRC). Information on qualified rated roofing products can be found at coolroofs.org/directory/roofOpen new site.. 
Cool roof products must be tested and labeled by the CRRC. Accepted cool roofing products must have a three-year Solar Reflectance Index (SRI) of greater than or equal to 86; OR an initial Solar Reflectance number greater than or equal to .83; OR a three-year Solar Reflectance number greater than or equal to .70. Performance specification numbers can be found in the CRRC rated products listing at coolroofs.org/directory/roofOpen new site..  
The home must have a low-sloped roof less than or equal to a 2:12 pitch and the product must have a minimum seven-year warranty.
Rebate calculation 
The SRP Cool Roof Rebate is paid per square foot of installed cool roofing materials. The rebate amount for a low-slope roof with products meeting the rebate specifications is 30 cents per square foot of roof coverage, up to $600. 

Rebate Calculation Example: 

A cool roof is installed on a low-slope roof measuring 1,500 square feet. The roofing material used has a three-year SRI of 88. 

Estimated Rebate = 1,500 sq. ft. x $0.30/sq. ft. = $450 

ROOF SLOPE	CHARACTERISTIC	PERFORMANCE SPECIFICATION
Low Slope ≤ 2/12	Initial Solar Reflectance	≥ 0.83
3-Year Solar Reflectance	≥ 0.70
3-Year Solar Reflectance Index (SRI)	≥ 86