Heat pump water heater rebate
An ENERGY STAR® certified heat pump water heater (HPWH) can help you save both energy and money. Receive an SRP rebate of $500 when you install an ENERGY STAR HPWH.


A new HPWH uses about half the electricity of normal electric resistance water heaters. Visit the Department of Energy websiteOpen new site. to learn more about HPWH technology and check out the benefits of upgrading to a super-efficient water heaterOpen new site. to see if one is right for your home. 

Rebate requirements
To participate, you must: 

Be a permanent SRP residential electric customer who lives in a single-family detached home, single-family attached home, mobile home or apartment/condo.
Replace your current water heater with a new ENERGY STAR certified HPWH that meets minimum efficiency ratings with a Uniform Energy Factor (UEF) of 2.8 or better. Visit the ENERGY STAR Find and Compare Products webpageOpen new site. and search for heat pump water heaters that meet the specific program requirements.
The HPWH must be installed in a home that has had permanent electric service from SRP for more than one year. Rebates are not available for new construction.
Have the HPWH installed by a contractor licensed in Arizona to install residential plumbing before April 30, 2024.
Allow, upon request, SRP or our agent to inspect the installed HPWH to verify compliance with SRP Heat Pump Water Heater Rebate requirements.
Application process:

Download the rebate checklistDocument is a PDF.
Download the Contractor Terms and Conditions agreementDocument is a PDF and have your qualified contractor sign the form. 
Complete the online application via SRP’s Rebate CenterOpen new site.. By creating an account, you can manage all SRP rebates in one place. You’ll upload the Contractor Terms and Conditions agreement as part of this process.
If you don't want to create an account, email your signed contractor agreement, a dated copy of the paid invoice, and a completed hard copy of the applicationDocument is a PDF to srpinfo@elaz.org. If you are applying for more than one rebate, a separate rebate application must be completed and submitted for each unit that you purchased and installed.

More things to know:

New construction homes do not qualify for the rebate.
Please read the Terms and ConditionsDocument is a PDF for complete program requirements.
Customers are eligible for an SRP Heat Pump Water Heater Rebate once every 10 years.
Find out about federal tax credits on heat pump water heaters hereOpen new site..
HPWH installations before July 1, 2023, do not qualify for the rebate.
