Efficient Home Program
Keep your home comfortable and energy efficient all year long
Heating and cooling account for the largest energy use in a typical home. If your cooling and heating systems aren’t operating efficiently, you’re wasting energy and money and sacrificing comfort. Our Efficient Home Program offers instant rebates for the purchase and installation of a new ENERGY STAR® certified air conditioning and heat pump unit through one of our authorized contractors. The rebate is taken off the purchase price when you retire an older working unit or a non-working AC unit. Rebates also are available for duct sealing and AC tune-ups.

You can start by scheduling a free virtual home assessment. During your appointment, we’ll help you determine if your home’s heating and cooling system is operating efficiently. You’ll also receive a customized report with energy-saving recommendations and information about available rebates. This information can help you decide if an energy-efficient upgrade is right for you and your home.

If you already have a heating and cooling project in mind, you don’t need to schedule a virtual assessment. Instead, you can work directly with an authorized contractor to receive your rebate.

To qualify for the rebates, you must use an authorized Efficient Home Program contractor. This ensures your equipment or services were properly completed, inspected and tested for optimal performance. TEP approved Trade Allies provide the installation services and deduct the rebate amount from the customer’s final project cost.

Please verify that your contractor is authorized by TEP to perform these services before work begins. For additional information about potential tax benefits for energy efficiency improvements, visit the Database of State Incentives for Renewables & Efficiency.


Rebates
ENERGY STAR® AC/heat pump quality installation with early retirement of qualifying existing system	up to $900
ENERGY STAR® AC/heat pump quality installation	up to $650
Duct sealing (varies based on actual leakage reduced):	up to $300

AC tuneup up to $155 across
Refrigerant charge repair: $90
Indoor coil cleaning: $40
Outdoor coil cleaning: $25	