APS TAKE CHARGE AZ
What is the APS Take Charge AZ pilot program?
APS Take Charge AZ will expand access to electric vehicle (EV) charging throughout Arizona. It will last five years during which time APS will gather important data on charging habits and the charging experience. This information will help us design products and services that meet the long-term needs of EV owners and drivers.

Who qualifies for the pilot?
APS non-residential customers, who currently do not have any EV charging equipment onsite for public, workplace, fleet, or residents of multifamily communities' use. Space to accommodate the chargers and infrastructure is also a requirement for eligibility. Customers that are either a 501(c)(3) non-profit, school, multifamily property, or municipality qualify for 100% of the construction, installation, and maintenance costs for up to four Level 2 charging stations. Other non-residential customers also qualify but with a 50% match requirement for the construction and installation costs. Customers may apply at aps.com/takechargeaz. Please keep in mind that funding is limited and not all customers who qualify will be selected to participate. Is there a cost to participate? For 501(c)(3) non-profits, schools, multifamily properties, and municipalities, APS will purchase and install the equipment and infrastructure necessary to power the chargers at no cost to the customer. For other qualifying commercial customers, the customer is required to match 50% of the construction and installation costs. All customers will be required to pay for the energy used by the chargers, which will be monitored and billed separately from their existing service. In addition, customers will be required to participate in a survey twice a year to gather feedback on the equipment, charging experience and other information relevant to the pilot. 

What do I get by participating in the pilot program?
You will have four Level 2 EV charging plugs installed at your location. APS will handle the construction and installation, as well as all ongoing maintenance. Participation allows you to take an active role in reducing vehicle emissions in Arizona and gives you an opportunity to provide insights into how APS should structure future EV programs. What if I already have EV chargers? One of the goals of this pilot is to install EV chargers at locations where drivers do not already have access to charging equipment. This will help us assess if providing chargers increases EV adoption; therefore, eligibility is based on location, not customer. Can I apply to have charges installed at multiple locations? You may apply for any locations that do not currently have chargers. As part of this pilot, we want to learn how charging behavior varies by business and industry type. We will work with you at the time of application to determine the best location to initially host chargers and additional locations will be added to a waitlist. 
