Efficient Home Program
Keep your home cool, comfortable and energy efficient all year long
More than half of the energy that’s used in the average home is for heating and air conditioning, according to the Environmental Protection Agency. But that doesn’t mean you need to sacrifice your comfort to save on energy costs. The Efficient Home Program can help you make sure your home isn’t wasting energy and provide you with rebates to make improvements more affordable.

You can start by scheduling a free virtual home assessment. During your appointment, we’ll help you determine if your home’s heating and cooling system is operating efficiently. You’ll also receive a customized report with energy-saving recommendations and information about available rebates. This information can help you decide if an energy-efficient upgrade is right for you and your home.

If you already have a heating and cooling project in mind, you don’t need to schedule a virtual assessment. Instead, you can work directly with an authorized contractor to receive your rebate.

UniSource’s Efficient Home Program can help you reduce your cooling and heating energy use, keeping more money in your pocket while making your home more comfortable. UniSource offers instant rebates for the purchase and installation of a new ENERGY STAR®-certified air conditioning and heat pump unit through one of our authorized contractors. Rebates also are available for duct sealing and AC tune-ups.

To qualify for the rebates, all work must be completed by one of UniSource’s authorized Efficient Home Program contractors. They follow specific quality guidelines for the testing, inspection and installation of equipment to ensure proper installation and performance of your new energy efficient equipment. UniSource approved Trade Allies provide the installation services and deduct the rebate amount from the customer’s final project cost.

Participating contractors near you can be found using our find a contractor page to search by project and zip code.

For information about potential tax benefits for energy efficiency improvements, visit the Database of State Incentives for Renewables & Efficiency.


Rebates
The following rebates are available on qualifying work performed by licensed UES Efficient Home Program participating contractors:

ENERGY STAR® AC/heat pump purchase and installation with early retirement of qualifying existing system:	Up to $900
ENERGY STAR® AC/heat pump purchase and installation:	Up to $650
Duct sealing (varies based on actual leakage reduced):	Up to $300
New Installed Duct Systems for quality installation with early retirement	Up to $250

Advanced AC tuneup: Up to $155 across:
Refrigerant charge repair: $90
Indoor coil cleaning: $40
Outdoor coil cleaning: $25