Incentives for residential and small commercial photovoltaic and wind systems are 5 cents per watt, up to a maximum system size of 50 kW. The incentive cap is $2,500 for residential and small commercial. Leased systems are not eligible for incentives. Additionally, members utilizing back up battery units with their renewable energy systems are eligible for a rebate for the battery too. For information on the battery rebate, click here.

“Members have the flexibility of selecting a solar installer to help them choose the size and type of system that fits their needs,” said Julia Garringer, Energy Management Specialist. “We recommend getting more than one estimate and also using the resources of the Arizona Registrar of Contractors website.
￼
SunWatts Renewable Energy Program Applications
To assist our members and their solar and wind energy contractors, we have developed a streamlined process for the 2023 SunWatts incentive application and interconnection of small renewable energy systems. Leased systems do not qualify for the incentive program.
Because solar and small wind systems can affect the safety and reliability of the distribution system, the technical interconnection rules are established to protect the safety of cooperative personnel and members, and maintain the integrity and reliability of Mohave’s system.
Derates are to be scheduled with the Mohave Electric Cooperative Call Center by calling (928) 763-1100. The initial application for solar must be approved by the Energy Management department prior to scheduling derates of Main Panel Upgrades.
Main Panel Upgrade requests must be submitted by the member via service order with a member service representative.
Application Steps

Reservation Form: Pre-approval of SunWatts Renewable Energy Incentive Funds

Step 1: Enrollment Form — Uniform Credit Purchase Program Application

Step 2: Interconnect Agreement, Interconnect Disclaimer, and Distributed Generation Service Application

Step 3: System Qualifications-Contractor Certification

Step 4: Submittal of Final Forms
If you have any questions or would like further information, please feel free to contact the Energy Management Department of MEC at (928) 758-0539 or email.

Information on Leased Renewable Energy Systems
This information is provided for members and installers who intend to install a leased renewable energy system through the MEC SunWatts Renewable Energy Incentive Program. Leased systems are not eligible for rebate or incentive, under the terms and conditions of MEC’s SunWatts Renewable Energy Incentive Program approved by the ACC.
The steps for the program for leased systems are as follows:
	1	Submit Step 1 “Enrollment Form Leased”.
	2	After MEC approval of the Enrollment Form, submit the “Interconnect Form”, Interconnect Disclaimer”, and the “Distributed Generation Service (DGS) Application” in Step 2.
	1	Note that the DGS Application is optional.
	3	After MEC approval of the Interconnect forms, proceed with the system installation.
	4	Install signage according to the MEC Solar Signage Guidelines (PDF).
	5	After installation and signage are completed, submit “Step 3 – System Qualifications (Contractor Certification) and “Step 4 – Final forms”.
	6	Contact MEC’s Energy Management Department to schedule the MEC system verification visit at the system installation site.
	7	After the system verification site visit and MEC approval, the system may be placed into service and operated.
For additional information, contact the MEC Energy Management Specialist at (928) 763-1100.

Sunwatts Renewable Energy Program Forms
Fill out the forms below either online, or print out the application found at the top of each page and mail back to us.
￼
Pre-Application Reservation Form
￼
Step 1: Enrollment Form
￼
Step 2: Interconnect Form & DGS Application
￼
Step 3 & 4: System Qualifications & Final Forms
￼
Solar Water Heating Rebate Application
