SRP air conditioning rebate
Air conditioning makes up 40%–50% of your summer energy bill, according to Energy.gov. With a new energy-efficient AC, you could save each month and get up to $1,125 back on your initial investment. 

On this page:
Upgrade to an energy-efficient AC and save
Qualifying AC units
Work with a qualified contractor
Estimated savings
Apply for the SRP Cool Cash™ Rebate 
Other ways to improve your AC
FAQ
Questions?
Upgrade to an energy-efficient AC and save
If you’re considering a new AC unit, heat pump or mini-split system, the SRP Cool Cash™ Rebate can help lower your costs. Here are some signs that it’s time to upgrade:

Your equipment is 10-plus years old.
Your system is extra noisy.
Your unit runs longer to maintain the same thermostat setting.
Choosing a new unit
Arizona’s summers are hot, but that doesn’t mean that a large AC system is the best way to stay cool. A unit that’s too big for your home can lead to expensive energy bills and may cause “short cycling,” which will wear the unit out. Short cycling happens when an oversized AC cools your home quickly instead of gradually, causing the unit to rapidly turn on and off. 

Qualifying AC units
Central AC, heat pump and mini split packages and systems
Heat Pumps (Rebate is per ton)
Single-stage compressor, >16.0 SEER, >15.0 SEER2: $75
Multi-stage compressor, >16.0 SEER, >15.0 SEER2: $150
Variable-capacity compressor, >16.0 SEER, >15.0 SEER2: $225
Inverter-driven mini split, >16.0 SEER, >15.0 SEER2: $225


All qualifying equipment must be listed in the AHRI Verified Directories as meeting or exceeding the efficiency minimums.Open new site.
Mini-splits can be ducted or ductless. Incentives paid by ton or half-ton of the system's nominal cooling capacity as listed by manufacturer's specifications.


Rebate program requirements
To participate, you must: 

Be a permanent SRP residential electric customer who lives in a single-family detached home, single-family attached home, mobile home or apartment/condo.
Have the qualified system installed by a contractor licensed in Arizona to install residential air-conditioning systems before April 30, 2024.
Replace or supplement an existing central heat pump or central AC with a new high-efficiency system that meets minimum efficiency ratings.
Submit Manual J load calculations with your application on single-stage systems (otherwise, your application will be delayed or denied). Load calculations are not required for multi-stage or variable-capacity systems.
Allow, upon request, SRP or our agent to inspect the installed unit to verify compliance with Cool Cash requirements.
Please note:

New Construction homes, window units, and installations in garages and other non-habitable spaces do not qualify for the rebate.
Both indoor air handler and condensing units must be replaced on split central systems. 
Please read the Terms and ConditionsDocument is a PDF for complete program requirements. 
