MileageSmart Used High Efficiency Vehicle Incentive Program
Overview
The State of Vermont has partnered with Capstone to offer the MileageSmart program. This offers low and moderate income car buyers an incentive covering 25% of the upfront cost of a used high efficiency vehicle, up to $5,000.

Vehicle Eligibility
Vehicles must have an efficiency of 40 miles per gallon or higher. This includes many hybrid, plug-in hybrid and all-electric vehicles.

How to claim your incentive
You must meet income eligibility requirements and be pre-approved prior to a purchase. Learn more and access application instructions at MileageSmartVT.org.




Frequently Asked Questions
What vehicles are eligible?
Vehicles located at a Vermont dealership that get a minimum 40 combined mpg as rated by the EPA are eligible for the incentive.

How much is the incentive?
The incentive is 25% of the initial sale price, up to $5,000. For example, a vehicle listed at $16,000 would receive a $4,000 incentive. Any vehicle listed at $20,000 or more will receive the full $5,000 incentive.

Where does the incentive go?
Unlike a rebate, the incentive functions as cash down. We send the money directly to the dealership so you don’t have to cover it.

How is income eligibility determined?
The MileageSmart Program is designed to assist Vermonters who are at or below 80% median income based on household size, determined by Adjusted Gross Income.

Your household income is determined by adding up the Adjusted Gross Income of everyone in your household. This is line 11 on a IRS form 1040. 

Can I buy two cars through this program?
This program is limited to one registered vehicle per licensed driver. So, while you cannot buy a second vehicle yourself through this program, another eligible adult in your household may.

My child is 18 and heading off to college — can they buy a car through the MileageSmart program?
If they are listed as a dependent on anyone’s tax returns, then no, they are not eligible.

I bought a car with a MileageSmart Incentive, but it was totaled. Can I get another car through the program?
Unfortunately no. We can only fund one incentive per licensed driver.

I just bought an eligible vehicle - can I get the incentive retroactively?
No, incentives are only available at the time of purchase.

