Incentives#
Residential customers can apply to receive rebates up to $1,000 for a solar PV installation. Rebate amounts are calculated based on the schedule of $/Watt of DC system generation capacity shown below and include a 20-year Renewable Energy Credit (REC) assignment to Fort Collins Utilities. See Eligibility Requirements below for more details.
To ensure access to incentive funding to all eligible customers, we manage the solar rebate program incentive cap and earnings rate based on available funding. The table below shows the maximum incentive amount and incentive rate paid per kW of DC generating capacity installed.
Maximum Incentive
$1,000
Incentive Rate
$200/kW


Fort Collins Utilities' recommends working with the members of the Participating Solar Contractor Network listed below. Contractors in the Network have committed to conduct their business according to a code of ethics and the Solar Energy Industries Association Solar Business Code. 
Residential Solar Rebates are only available to customers who work with active Participating Solar Contractors through purchasing and installation of their solar PV system. Customers are encouraged to solicit competitive bids from two or more contractors. Use Utilities' MyData portal to share your energy history data with contractors that have registered for this service.
This list is updated periodically as contractors join or leave the network. Consult the Better Business Bureau and social media sites for additional consumer feedback.
 
Contractors: see the Solar Contractor Resources page for project resources and details on joining the Network. 
The Participating Solar Contractor Network and listed resources are intended as a starting point for customers who do not have a prior relationship with a service provider or vendor. No warranty regarding the accuracy of the information, experience, quality of service, licensure, or proof of insurance or bonding is implied by listing a contractor in the Network. Under the City of Fort Collins Charter, Municipal Code, and City Manager’s Policies, the City is unable to recommend or endorse any individual contractor, without regard to those listed in the Network. 


Financing Options  #
The Epic Loan program makes going solar even easier with competitive interest rates and no-money-down financing. Other financing options are available. EnergySage can provide a list of companies, but these are not vetted by Fort Collins Utilities. 
