￼



 
￼
￼

Connected Homes
Connected Homes is a program offered to customers of Princeton Municipal Light Department (PMLD) that leverages the technology of smart appliances and devices into cost savings for the light department and its customers. The program allows PMLD to better manage its electric load, reduce costs, and keep rates low.
Enrollment Details
By enrolling a smart device in the Connected Homes Program, customers agree to allow Connected Homes to make brief, limited adjustments to their devices during times of peak electric demand, such as temporarily turning off an electric vehicle charger during peak hours.
Customers will be informed of possible adjustments in advance via email and will be given the choice to opt out.
Customers who decide to participate in adjustments will be given an incentive check/bill credit.
Eligible Devices
Refer to the table below to learn which devices and brands are eligible for participation in Connected Homes.

Smart Devices
Qualifying Brands
Monthly Incentive
Battery
Duracell, Emporia, Sonnen
$30
Electric Vehicle
Ford 2013+, Hyundai 2017+, Jaguar 2016+, Land Rover 2016+, Toyota 2017+, Tesla 2012+, Volkswagen 2014+
$10
Electric Vehicle Charger*
ChargePoint, Emporia, Enel X JuiceBox
$10
Electric Hot Water Heater
GE, Rheem
$5
Mini-Split Controller
Flair, Sensibo
$5
Wi-Fi Thermostat
Amazon, Google Nest**, Honeywell/Resideo
$5
*Customers previously enrolled in the NextZero EV Scheduled Charging Program with any EV charger are not eligible to enroll in Connected Homes until three years from date of enrollment in the Scheduled Charging Program.
**Google and Nest Thermostat are trademarks of Google LLC.
Please note, customers can enroll an electric vehicle OR an EV charger, not both.
Interested in purchasing a Wi-Fi thermostat? PMLD offers rebates on Wi-Fi thermostats through the NextZero Appliance Rebate Program.
Enroll Now
Connected Homes Frequently Asked Questions
Can I enroll multiple devices?
Yes, in most cases, customers are able to enroll multiple devices in the NextZero Connected Homes Program and will receive incentives for each device that is enrolled and participates in adjustments. The exception is that either an EV charger or an EV itself can be enrolled, but not both.
Will I be notified before an adjustment is made? How will I be notified?
Yes, PMLD will notify its customers in advance of a possible adjustment. Customers will be notified of upcoming adjustments via email. 
Can I decide to opt out of an adjustment?
Yes, customers will be given the opportunity to opt out when they are notified about an upcoming adjustment. Customers who choose to opt out of an adjustment will not be issued an incentive for that month.
How many adjustments should I anticipate and when in the day will they occur?
Customers can expect between two to three adjustments per month, though as many as five could occur. The hours vary depending on the season, but typically adjustments occur between 4 and 8 p.m.
With a home battery system, will all of my battery’s charge be pulled during an adjustment?
No more than 80% of a customer’s battery will be drawn down during an adjustment.
How will I be paid for my participation?
Customers will be given incentive checks for their participation in Connected Homes. Checks will be issued once per quarter.
NextZero - Experience What's Next
A Massachusetts Municipal Wholesale Electric Company (MMWEC) Program. Copyright 2024.
NextZero Is A Service Mark Of MMWEC.

