￼



EV Charger Program
￼

Monitor and Control Charging of Your EV from the Palm of Your Hand!
￼
Princeton Municipal Light Department (PMLD) has partnered with its energy efficiency program manager, Massachusetts Municipal Wholesale Electric Company, (MMWEC), to provide a free or discounted Wi-Fi-equipped Level 2 residential electric vehicle charger to customers signing on to the NextZero Scheduled Charging Program.
What is a Scheduled Charging Program?
Scheduled charging is a set schedule to determine when a charger can be used at full power. Through the Wi-Fi connection enabled in the charger, PMLD will power off the EV charger during periods of peak energy usage for the rest of our distribution system. Learn more by downloading PMLD’s charging agreement or check to see if your EV model qualifies. Visit the Department of Energy Resource’s Alternative Fuels Data Center to compare different EV models.
Want to learn more about different charging levels? Download EV Charging 101.
How it Works
Between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and 9:00 p.m. on non-holiday weekdays, your EV charger will not charge. Outside of this time period, the charger will automatically unlock to allow you full Level 2 fast-charging functionality.
Emergency Scheduling
Sometimes major events happen on the electrical system outside of our control. To respond to these events, emergency scheduling allows PMLD to temporarily access your charger via Wi-Fi connection to lower your charging rate until the event passes. This limits strain to our system and allows us to continue to deliver low-cost, reliable electricity.
Charger Incentives
PMLD customers are eligible for a free charger for electric vehicles (EVs) and a $200 or $300 rebate for plug-in hybrids (PHEVs) in exchange for enrolling the charger into the Scheduled Charging Program. Refer to the table below for more information.

Vehicle Type
EV Charger Incentive
Full Electric Vehicle
Free
PHEV with less than 15 kWh Battery Capacity
$200 Off
PHEV with 15 kWh Battery Capacity or Greater
$300 Off
*Only ChargePoint & JuiceBox Smart Level 2 chargers are eligible for enrollment/rebates.

Did You Know:
	•	Costs for these peak charging events are spread across PMLD’s entire residential customer base.
	•	Modern electric vehicles utilizing Level 2 charging can go from empty to full-charge in eight hours or less. Even without charging from 5:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m., your car will be fully charged at 5 a.m.
	•	The Scheduled Charging Program offered by PMLD provides you with a FREE or discounted Wi-Fi-equipped Level 2 charger (a $650 value); customer arranges installation.
Additional EV Incentives
Additional manufacturer discounts may be available for EV purchases. Please contact your local dealership to learn more.
Electric Vehicles

	•	EV Charger Program
	•	EV Resources
	•	The Cost of EV Ownership
	•	EV Videos
Enroll EV Charger
Enroll PHEV Charger
NextZero - Experience What's Next
A Massachusetts Municipal Wholesale Electric Company (MMWEC) Program. Copyright 2024.
NextZero Is A Service Mark Of MMWEC.

