￼



EV Resources
￼

￼
Why Should You Switch To An EV?
Electric vehicles offer significantly lower emissions than standard gas vehicles and require far less maintenance. With federal and state tax incentives, the cost of certain EV models is comparable to standard cars. Click on the flyer to the left to learn more about driving electric.
Electric Vehicles

	•	EV Resources
	•	The Cost of EV Ownership
	•	EV Videos
￼
Considering Purchasing A Pre-Owned EV?
If you like the idea of switching to an electric vehicle but want to spend less, consider purchasing a pre-owned electric vehicle! Click the flyer to the left to learn more.

￼
Electric Vehicle Incentives
NEW in 2023: Electric vehicle drivers can save even more on EVs through the Inflation Reduction Act during the 2023 tax year. EV drivers are now eligible for a federal tax credit of $4,000 (or up to 30% of the vehicle price-whichever is lower) on the purchase of pre-owned EVs. Taxpayers are also eligible for a credit of 30% of the hardware and installation costs for EV chargers installed at their homes in 2022, up to a maximum of $1,000.
MOR-EV Standard: The Massachusetts Offers Rebates for Electric Vehicles (MOR-EV) program provides rebates of up to $3,500 for the purchase or lease of new battery electric vehicles and fuel-cell electric vehicles and up to $1,500 for plug-in hybrid electric vehicles. Income-qualified residents may be eligible for a $3,500 rebate on the purchase of pre-owned electric vehicles. As of February 16, 2021, light, medium, and heavy-duty EV trucks have been added to the MOR-EV Program.  
MOR-EV+: MOR-EV+ is an additional $1,500 rebate available on top of the standard $3,500 rebate. This is available to Massachusetts residents participating in select income-qualifying programs.
Fuel Economy: Electric and plug-in hybrid electric cars purchased after 2010 may be eligible for a federal tax credit of up to $7,500. The credit amount varies by model, so visit the link above to check a specific EV model’s eligibility. 

￼
Want To Learn More?
To learn more about electric vehicles, EV benefits, and EV incentives, please visit the websites below.
Smart EV Charging for Dummies: Enel X recently released a free ebook titled “Smart EV Charging for Dummies” that walks potential EV drivers through the ins and outs of electric vehicles and electric vehicle charging.
Fuel Economy: Fuel Economy also has a Compare Side-by-Side tool that lets drivers compare up to four vehicles at a time (including electric and standard non-electric vehicles).
Green Energy Consumers Alliance: Green Energy Consumers Alliance is a great first step for prospective EV owners to learn more about electric vehicles. The alliance’s website has a variety of resources including an online database of pre-owned EVs.
How to Receive Tax Credits for EVs: Have you recently purchased an electric vehicle, but aren’t sure how to get your tax credit? Check out this article by Plug In America to learn how.
Plug In America: Plug In America strives to encourage the shift to plug-in vehicles powered by clean, affordable, domestic electricity to improve air quality and reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
National Drive Electric Week: National Drive Electric Week is a nationwide celebration to raise awareness of the many benefits of all-electric and plug-in hybrid electric vehicles.
NextZero - Experience What's Next
A Massachusetts Municipal Wholesale Electric Company (MMWEC) Program. Copyright 2023.
NextZero Is A Service Mark Of MMWEC.

