


	•	Home
	•	About
	•	Commissioners and Staff
	•	Bill Payments
	•	Payment Assistance
	•	Efficiency and Rebates
	•	For Electricians
	•	Solar
	•	Mutual Aid
	•	Outage Awareness
	•	Rates
	•	Downloads
	•	Helpful Links
	•	Employment
	•	RFP's / Bid Packages

￼
Rebates and Efficiency Programs
ENERGY NEW ENGLAND REBATE PORTAL
Home Energy Efficiency

Home Energy Assessments
Provided through our partners at Energy New England
In-Home Energy Audit
Free
Groveland Municipal Light Department is pleased to offer no-cost Home Energy Assessments to our Residential Customers.  Please call 1-888-772 4242 to speak with a representative at Energy New England to schedule this no-cost service.  An Energy Advisor will come to your home and perform  an efficiency assessment, utilizing the latest Snugg-Pro software package to identify areas in your home where energy savings can be realized.  
Available Rebates through our partners at Energy New England

Energy Efficient Household Items
Items to help reduce household energy usage. See official flyer from GMLD/Energy New England for Eligibility and Restrictions. For all questions please call Energy New England @ 1-888-772-4242
Smart Power Strip
$10
Reduce your consumption by automatically shutting down devices in stand-by mode
Standard Programmable Thermostat
$25
Program your thermostat to regulate heating and cooling when you're not home
Wi-Fi Smart Thermostat
$100
Nest and Ecobee Wi-Fi Thermostats 
Air Purifier
$50
Energy Star Certified 
Dehumidifier
$50
Energy Star Certified
Hybrid Water Heater
$250
Use Heat-Pump technology to heat your domestic hot water

Air Source Heat Pump / Mini Split Systems
An efficient way to heat and cool your home! See official flyer from GMLD/Energy New England for eligibility and restrictions. Maximum rebate is $1000. For all questions please call Energy New England @ 1-888-772-4242
Air Source Heat Pumps
$500
 • Ducted systems: SEER greater or equal to 15 and HSPF greater or equal to 9. 
Mini Split Ductless Systems
$500
• Non-ducted Systems: SEER greater or equal to 15 and HSPF greater or equal to 10. 




Lawn and Garden Equipment
New for 2022! Electric Lawn and Garden equipment is now eligible for rebates from GMLD! Equipment eligible for the rebate MUST be powered by electricity - either corded or cordless. Maximum rebate amount is $250.
Zero Turn Lawnmower
$100
Lawn Tractor
$100
Walk-behind Lawnmower
$50
String-trimmer
$25
Leaf Blower
$25
Hedge Trimmer
$25
Chain/Pole Saw
$25
Pressure Washer
$25
To submit a rebate application please use the Energy New England Rebate Portal at the top right of the page
Weatherization and Insulation
Seal out those drafts and keep your home comfortable and efficient, year round! See official flyer from GMLD/Energy New England for Eligibility and Restrictions. For all questions please call Energy New England @ 1-888-772-4242
Air Sealing
Up to 50% of Installation Cost/Max of $1000
Account holder must have had a Home Energy Assessment completed on the home within the past 5 years , and Air Sealing must be on the list of recommended measures
General Insulation
Up to 50% of Installation Cost/Max of $1000
Account holder must have had a  Home Energy Assessment  completed on the home within the past 5 years; Insulation must be on the list of recommended measures
Insulation: Pipe Wrap
Up to 50% of Installation Cost/Max of $1000
 Account holder must have had a Home Energy Assessment  completed on the home within the past 5 years; Insulation must be on the list of recommended measures 


To submit a rebate application please use the Energy New England Rebate Portal at the top right of the page
Other Rebates available in the Commonwealth
Follow this link to see more efficiency incentives that may be available to Groveland Customers through various agencies in Massachusetts, including the Mass Clean Energy Council
DSIRE - INCENTIVE PROGRAMS IN MASSACHUSETTS

Copyright © 2023 Groveland Municipal Light Department - All Rights Reserved.
Powered by GoDaddy
