￼



Energy Audits
￼

Energy Audit Services
Home energy audits can provide a greater level of information to those customers wishing to implement major energy conservation projects in their home. The NextZero Residential Audit Service is provided to those customers who have used the NextZero toll-free energy conservation hotline or online scheduler, and who qualify based on the age of their home, existing insulation levels, and other requirements. Those customers who complete an in-home energy audit project are eligible for Home Efficiency rebates. For more information on home energy audits, call our toll-free number and speak with our staff.
Home Energy Audit Fact Sheet
Toll-Free Hotline: (888) 333-7525
￼
Customers of Russell Municipal Light Department (RMLD) may call the toll-free hotline with any questions concerning energy conservation in their home. Our staff has a wealth of information about all aspects of residential energy conservation, and can provide it either by mail or email. We can also assist or direct you to a number of different web-based resources providing online information on many conservation measures, as well as online energy audits you can conduct on your own.
Our customer assistance staff is available to answer your energy questions. After your initial call, please feel free to call back to discuss any further questions you may have about the information you receive from us.
Schedule Your Audit Online!
Russell Municipal Light Department customers can now schedule their home energy assessments online in addition to using the toll-free hotline.
Solar Services
Considering solar? Our auditors can look at the orientation of your home as a standard part of every NextZero energy audit. 
￼
NextZero Home Energy Audits With Center For EcoTechnology
The Center for EcoTechnology (CET) helps people and businesses save energy and reduce waste. For more than 40 years, the non-profit organization has worked with partners throughout the region to help transform the way they live and work for a better community, economy, and environment. CET makes green make sense. Learn more at www.cetonline.org.

Online Audit Scheduler
Use the online scheduling tool to schedule your home energy audit.
Audit Scheduler

Toll-Free Hotline: (888) 333-7525
Call the toll-free audit hotline, (888) 333-7525, to schedule your audit today.

Audit Videos
Review our selection of videos that show you what to expect from your Home Energy Audit.
Watch Videos

Bright Ideas!
By resetting your programmable thermostat from 72 degrees to 65 degrees for eight hours a day (for instance, while no one is home or while everyone is tucked in bed) you can cut your heating bill by up to 10 percent.
NextZero - Experience What's Next
A Massachusetts Municipal Wholesale Electric Company (MMWEC) Program. Copyright 2023.
NextZero Is A Service Mark Of MMWEC.

