￼



Energy Audits
￼

Energy Audit Services
Home energy audits can provide a greater level of information to those customers wishing to implement major energy conservation projects in their home. The NextZero Residential Audit Service is provided to those customers who have used the NextZero toll-free energy conservation hotline or online scheduler, and who qualify based on the age of their home, existing insulation levels, and other requirements. Those customers who complete an in-home energy audit project are eligible for Home Efficiency rebates. For more information on home energy audits, call our toll-free number and speak with our staff.
Home Energy Audit Fact Sheet
Toll-Free Hotline: (888) 333-7525
￼
Customers of Shrewsbury Electric and Cable Operations (SELCO) may call the toll-free hotline with any questions concerning energy conservation in their home. Our staff has a wealth of information about all aspects of residential energy conservation, and can provide it either by mail or email. We can also assist or direct you to a number of different web-based resources providing online information on many conservation measures, as well as online energy audits you can conduct on your own.
Our customer assistance staff is available to answer your energy questions. After your initial call, please feel free to call back to discuss any further questions you may have about the information you receive from us.
Schedule Your Audit Online!
SELCO customers can now schedule their home energy assessments online in addition to using the toll-free hotline.
Solar Services
Considering solar? Our auditors can look at the orientation of your home as a standard part of every NextZero energy audit. 
￼
NextZero Home Energy Audits With Center For EcoTechnology
The Center for EcoTechnology (CET) helps people and businesses save energy and reduce waste. For more than 40 years, the non-profit organization has worked with partners throughout the region to help transform the way they live and work for a better community, economy, and environment. CET makes green make sense. Learn more at www.cetonline.org.
Considering a heat pump for your home, but don’t know where to start? Schedule a heat pump assessment.
The NextZero Heat Pump Assessment Program provides SELCO customers with free expert advice and assistance with choosing a system that is optimally suited for their home.
Through CET, customers of SELCO can schedule a no-cost, no-obligation consultation with an independent heat pump expert to learn how the technology works, understand how heat pumps can reduce home heating costs, and receive guidance on using heat pumps for supplementary or whole-home heating. This assessment will ensure that the heat pump size and configuration is optimized for the customer’s home and heating and cooling goals, helping to avoid the risk of an oversized or undersized system and outsized bills.
If customers decide to purchase a heat pump after the heat pump assessment, they are eligible for heat pump rebates from SELCO. 
Customers who are interested in the Heat Pump Assessment Program can go to CET’s website for more information or call (888) 333-7525 to schedule an assessment.
￼
Rebates and Savings
SELCO offers rebates for heat pump purchases through the Heat Pump Rebate program. Look at the table below to see the equipment specifications that qualify for rebates. Additional program rules may apply. 

Heat Pump
SEER
EER
HSPF
COP
Tier I Rebates
Tier II Rebates
Air Source Heat Pump (Including Mini-Splits)
≥16
N/A
≥9.0
N/A
$1,000/ton
$2,000/ton
Ground Source Heat Pump
N/A
≥20
N/A
≥3.5
$1,500/ton
$3,000/ton
*Maximum of two ductless mini-split heat pumps are allowed. SEER= Seasonal Energy Efficiency Ratio, EER= Energy Efficiency Ration, HSPF= Heating Seasonal Performance Factor, COP= Coefficient of Performance
Additional Information
Want to learn more about heat pumps and how the devices work? Read the Massachusetts Clean Energy Center’s (MassCEC) air source heat pump guide.

Online Audit Scheduler
Use the online scheduling tool to schedule your home energy audit.
Audit Scheduler

Toll-Free Hotline: (888) 333-7525
Call the toll-free audit hotline, (888) 333-7525, to schedule your audit today.

Audit Videos
Review our selection of videos that show you what to expect from your Home Energy Audit.
Watch Videos

Bright Ideas!
By resetting your programmable thermostat from 72 degrees to 65 degrees for eight hours a day (for instance, while no one is home or while everyone is tucked in bed) you can cut your heating bill by up to 10 percent.
NextZero - Experience What's Next
A Massachusetts Municipal Wholesale Electric Company (MMWEC) Program. Copyright 2023.
NextZero Is A Service Mark Of MMWEC.

