￼



EV Charger Rebate Program
￼

Monitor and Control Charging of Your EV from the Palm of Your Ha
￼
nd!
Shrewsbury Electric and Cable Operations (SELCO) has partnered with its energy efficiency program manager, Massachusetts Municipal Wholesale Electric Company, (MMWEC), to offer a rebate on eligible Wi-Fi-equipped Level 2 residential electric vehicle (EV) charger to customers who first enroll their EV charger in the Connected Homes Program.
How it Works
	1	Consult a licensed electrician on which charger will work best in your home
	2	Purchase and install an EV charger that is compatible with the Connected Homes Program
	3	Enroll the EV charger in the Connected Homes Program
	4	Apply for the EV charger rebate and provide a copy of the dated sales receipt
	5	Allow 6 to 8 weeks to process the rebate check
What is Connected Homes and What Chargers are Compatible? 
Connected Homes is a program offered to SELCO customers that leverages the technology of smart appliances and devices into cost savings for the light department and its customers. The program allows SELCO to better manage its electric load, reduce costs, and keep rates low. More information on Connected Homes and a list of compatible chargers can be found on the Connected Homes webpage.  Please note that customers who receive the EV charger rebate are not eligible to receive the Connected Homes Program incentive for 36 months.
NextZero EV Charger Incentives
SELCO customers with a fully electric vehicle are eligible for a rebate of up to $700 ($700 or the cost of the charger, whichever is less). Customers with plug-in hybrid vehicles are eligible for a $200 or $300 rebate after the EV charger in Connected Homes Program. Refer to the table below for more information. Customers who receive the EV charger rebate are not eligible to receive the Connect Homes Program incentive for 36 months. If the EV charging unit is removed from the Connect Homes Program prior to completion of the agreed upon term (36 months), a one-time charge of the rebated amount will be applied to the customer’s account to recover the rebate of the Level 2 charging device.

Vehicle Type
EV Charger Rebate
Fully Electric Vehicle
Up to $700
Plug-in Hybrid Electric Vehicle with less than 15 kWh Battery Capacity
$200
Plug-in Hybrid Electric Vehicle with 15 kWh Battery Capacity or Greater
$300
*Only ChargePoint, JuiceBox & Emporia Smart Level 2 chargers are eligible for enrollment/rebates.
SELCO Commercial EV Incentives
SELCO also provides  commercial, general service, and municipal customers with an incentive for the purchase or lease of new and used all-electric vehicles (EVs) and plug-in hybrid electric vehicles (PHEVs). PHEV and EV charger rebates are also available. Learn more.
Additional EV Incentives
Local: Visit SELCO’s EV page at selco.shrewsburyma.gov/evrebates to learn more about rebates on new or used All-Electric or Hybrid vehicles.
State: Visit https://mor-ev.org/ for Massachusetts state rebates up to $3.500 on eligible battery electric or fuel cell vehicles.
Federal: The Federal Plug-in Electric Vehicle Credit provides up to $7,500 in tax credit toward the purchase or lease of an EV. Visit https://fueleconomy.gov/feg/taxevb.shtml for more information.
Manufacturer: Additional manufacturer discounts may be available for EV purchases. Please contact your local dealership to learn more.
Electric Vehicles

	•	EV Charger Rebate Program
	•	EV Resources
	•	The Cost of EV Ownership
	•	EV Videos
EV Charger Rebate Application
NextZero - Experience What's Next
A Massachusetts Municipal Wholesale Electric Company (MMWEC) Program. Copyright 2023.
NextZero Is A Service Mark Of MMWEC.

