￼

Electric Vehicle Rebates
HMLP offers incentives for EV charging and rebates for charging equipment
APPLY



Dollar a Gallon Charging Incentive
Sign up to save with HMLP’s “Dollar a Gallon” EV Rewards Program, open to Hingham residents. Simply set your car to charge during the “off-peak” hours in the evenings, likely between 10 PM – 12 PM on weekdays, and complete the enrollment process. You then earn either a $5 (for Level 1 charging) or a $10 (for Level 2 charging) monthly credit on your HMLP electric bill. Combined with HMLP’s lower than MA average electric rates, this could be like paying just one dollar per gallon equivalent of electric driving mileage! Go online to HinghamDrivesElectric.org, fill out the contact form, and get signed up to start earning a monthly bill credit. 
High-Speed Charger Installation Rebate
HMLP is also offering EV owners a rebate of $300 to help offset the cost of installing some or all components of a Wi-Fi capable Level 2 system for higher speed charging of an electric vehicle at your home if they first enroll in HMLP’s “Dollar a Gallon” EV rewards program described above. To claim your rebate, contact Hingham Drives Electric after enrolling in the “Dollar a Gallon” EV Rewards program and purchasing and installing your Level 2 charging equipment.
￼
Hingham Drives Electric Program
All of HMLP’s EV incentives are run through the Hingham Drives Electric program. By going to HinghamDrivesElectric.org, residents can learn about EV incentives, use the Buying Guide, request help for installing charging equipment, and more! 
CHECK IT OUT NOW
Commercial Rebate Program 
Commercial customers in Hingham can get up to $6,000 total for a dual port charging station, up to $3,000 each for installation and equipment, or up to $1,500 each per port. Eligibility restrictions and guidelines apply. If interested, reach out to Hingham Drives Electric to learn more. 
Hingham Municipal Lighting Plant
31 Bare Cove Park Drive Hingham, MA 02043-2685
Contact Us
Phone: (781) 749-0134 Fax: (781) 749-1396 customerservice@hmlp.com
Business Hours
Mon – Thurs: 7:00AM – 3:30PM Friday: 7:00AM – 1:00PM Sat – Sun: Closed
Follow Us!
	•	Follow
	•	Follow
	•	Follow
	•	Follow
© Hingham Municipal Lighting Plant | Website Design by Spark Creative Works
PAY BILL
