￼

Weatherization Rebates
HMLP will offer a rebate to customers who weatherize their home or business in Hingham. If you currently heat your home with natural gas, you are eligible for Mass Save’s weatherization rebates. See our step-by-step process below. 
APPLY



Step-by-Step Process

Your home or business is likely not as energy efficient as it can be, resulting in higher electricity and cooling costs. Weatherization rebates target tight building envelopes that will minimize heat loss, leaks, and drafts while maximizing energy efficiency and comfort. After weatherization, it can be more economic to pursue electrification technologies such as heat pumps. For guidance on how to complete a successful project, follow our step-by-step process laid out below. If you have any questions or want additional assistance getting started, contact our Sustainability Coordinator by filling out our contact form.

– 1 –
Determine whether you are eligible for the HMLP or Mass Save Program
Program eligibility is based on the primary type of heating fuel used in your home or business. If you do not meet the criteria for either program, you may refer to HMLP’s heat pump program for electric heating assistance or its efficient appliance program for central A/C assistance.
￼
SEE BELOW FOR HMLP'S PROGRAM
HMLP’s Program Information:
HMLP is offering 50% of the project cost up to $1,000 for weatherization. Eligible measures such as insulation or air-sealing are determined by an ENE energy assessment and have a payback of less than 10 years. Customers must meet all of HMLP’s requirements to be eligible for the rebate.
Insulation: Attic, wall, floor, or crawlspace and rim joist insulation
Air sealing: Weather stripping, caulking, and interior storm windows
Notes: If a project is self-completed, save all receipts for materials associated with the installation. A dollar value for self-labor is not rebate eligible. New construction is not rebate eligible, including additions on existing homes. 
￼
CHECK OUT MASS SAVE'S PROGRAM
Mass Save Program Information:
Mass Save is offering 75% to 100% off insulation, plus no-cost air-sealing of leaks in drafty areas of the home. There are additional incentives available, including $75 each for triple-pane EnergyStar certified windows and 0% financing through the HEAT loan. Customers must meet Mass Save’s requirements to be eligible for the rebate.
Note: HMLP is not responsible for the management or administration of the Mass Save program. Resources have been shared based on publicly available information that is subject to change at any time. It is the consumer’s responsibility to verify any and all Mass Save program information with an official Mass Save representative.
– 2 –
Schedule a No-Cost Energy Assessment

An ENE energy assessment must be completed before the project and dated within two years of the job date in order to be eligible for the rebate. HMLP uses Energy New England’s (ENE) assessment services to provide customers with expert advice on energy efficiency improvements. ENE’s highly trained and experienced Energy Advisors can assess your building’s energy efficiency to identify heating, lighting, and weatherization opportunities that can save money on utility bills. Qualified weatherization projects are those that are listed in the ENE energy assessment. If you have questions about the assessment process or need assistance, please contact hea@ene.org or call 888-772-4242. 
Note: If natural gas is your primary heating fuel, sign up for a Mass Save energy assessment.
RESIDENTIAL
COMMERCIAL
MASS SAVE
– 3 –
Find a Contractor or DIY Resources

HMLP does not manage or maintain a contractor list for weatherization. However, customers can utilize Mass Save’s contractor list at their own discretion. Not all contractors on Mass Save’s list will necessarily work outside of Mass Save’s program. Also, using a contractor on this list is not required for rebate eligibility. Work completed by any contractor is eligible for a rebate so long as the project itself is qualified on the energy assessment and meets all of HMLP’s other eligibility requirements. Customers can also use the EnergyStar DIY Guide to Sealing and Insulating if interested in self-completing a project.

CONTRACTORS
DIY GUIDE
– 4 –
Complete the project and submit a rebate application


Once the weatherization project is completed, submit a rebate application to HMLP! You will receive a confirmation email once the application is submitted successfully. Purchases and rebate applications must be submitted by 12/31 of the current calendar year. The rebate will be issued by check pending approval. For more information, please contact Energy New England, HMLP’s Program Administrator, at rebates@ene.org or call 888-772-4242.
SUBMIT A REBATE APPLICATION
Hingham Municipal Lighting Plant
31 Bare Cove Park Drive Hingham, MA 02043-2685
Contact Us
Phone: (781) 749-0134 Fax: (781) 749-1396 customerservice@hmlp.com
Business Hours
Mon – Thurs: 7:00AM – 3:30PM Friday: 7:00AM – 1:00PM Sat – Sun: Closed
Follow Us!
	•	Follow
	•	Follow
	•	Follow
	•	Follow
© Hingham Municipal Lighting Plant | Website Design by Spark Creative Works
PAY BILL
