Skip To Main Site Navigation Skip to Content Skip To Left Navigation Skip To Footer
Residential Commercial About HG&E

Outages & Updates Contact HG&E Sign In
￼
menu
search
￼
CLOSE
 
	•	Services
	◦	Electric
	◦	Natural Gas
	◦	Telecommunications
	◦	Lighting
	◦	Maintenance & Repair
	◦	Rates
	◦	Payments
	◦	Start, Stop, Move, Upgrade
	◦	Electricians
	•	Smart Energy
	◦	Clean Energy Dashboard
	◦	For your Home
	◦	For your Business
	◦	HG&EV - Electric Vehicle Program
	◦	Mini-Split & Air Source Heat Pump Education
	◦	Solar Energy for Customers
	◦	Environment
	◦	Energy Conservation Tips
	◦	Energy Kids
	◦	Solar Energy
	◦	Hydroelectric Energy
	◦	Energy Storage
	◦	What is Peak Electricity Demand?
	•	Safety
	◦	Dig Safe
	◦	Natural Gas Safety
	◦	Carbon Monoxide (CO)
	◦	Electrical Power Line
	◦	Outage Center
	◦	Home Generator Safety
	◦	Payment Fraud
	◦	Energy Theft
	◦	Public Awareness
	◦	Emergency Response Official
	•	Community
	◦	Environment
	◦	Education
	◦	Recreation
	◦	Robert E. Barrett Fishway
	◦	Clean Energy Dashboard
	◦	Economic Development
	•	Latest News
	◦	Energy Insights Newsletter
	◦	Footprint Newsletter
	◦	Outages & Updates
	◦	LNG Project
Residential
Commercial
About HG&E

Outages & Updates
Contact HG&E
Sign In
 


Rebates & Incentives for your Home

	•	Home
	•	For your Home
	•	Rebates & Incentives
For your Home
	•	Start, Stop, Move, Upgrade
	•	Residential Rates
	•	Rebates & Incentives
	◦	Residential Energy Conservation Program
	◦	Rebates
	◦	Residential Energy Audits
	◦	Connected Homes - Smart Device Monthly Incentives
	◦	Electric Vehicle Charger Program
	◦	Fuel Assistance
	◦	Beat the Peak
	◦	Heat Pump and Mini-Split Customer Survey
	•	Solar Energy for Residential Customers
	•	Community Solar
	•	Update Your Contact Information
energy efficiency and electrification programs
Residential Energy Conservation Program
Financial assistance at 0% interest for various projects including heat pumps/mini-splits, gas furnaces and boilers, central ACs, water heaters, weatherization, EV charging infrastructure and solar PV.
 
Rebates for Appliances, Weatherization and Heating & Cooling
Rebates available for qualifying appliances, central air conditioners, heat pumps/mini-splits, and weatherization projects including insulation and air sealing.
Heat Pump and Mini-Split Incentives and Educational Resources
A variety of rebates and incentives are available for heat pumps and mini-splits, including rebates and incentives available through HG&E as well as other organizations. Click here for our heat pump education webpage which includes information on how they work, advantages of heat pumps, how much it costs to heat with a heat pump, and more.
Electric Vehicle Incentives and Education

HG&E's EV Charger Program provides $10/month & a free Level 2 charger (or a rebate up to $450 for an existing charger) for avoiding charging during peak times. 
Visit our educational website, HG&EV, for information about electric vehicles, including the savings and benefits, as well as federal and state rebates and incentives available.
Connected Homes Smart Device Monthly Incentives
Receive a $5-$30/month incentive for allowing HG&E to remotely adjust your smart device a few times each month. (Available for qualifying thermostats, water heaters, heat pump controllers and home battery storage systems.)
Beat the Peak
Help us keep costs and carbon emissions down by signing up to receive alerts when demand for energy is highest.
Free Home Energy Audits
Get a free customized assessment of your home to help determine the most cost-effective ways to reduce your energy bills.
Renewable Energy
Learn more about how installing your own renewable energy system works in HG&E’s service territory as well as available incentives.
Energy Conservation Tips
Visit our Energy Conservation Tips webpage for ideas on ways you can reduce your energy use.

Additional Non-HG&E Programs and Resources
MassCEC Decarbonization Pathways Pilot
MassCEC is offering grants of up to $30,000 to homeowners who are committed to decarbonizing their homes. Eligible projects include weatherization, installing heat pumps, electric hot water heaters and appliances, electric vehicle purchases, etc.  Priority will be given to applicants who intend to install whole home heat pump systems and who intend to fully decarbonize their home. First Application Deadline: July 31, 2022. Second application window opens in fall 2022. 
Low-Income Weatherization Assistance Program
An average of $4,500 in funds available for full-scale home energy efficiency services including insulation and air sealing for qualifying low-income homeowners and tenants.
Fuel Assistance
Various local and regional programs available for qualifying low-income households to assist with heating costs.
Low Interest Financing
Various companies offer low-interest financing options to help with energy efficiency projects such as heat pump installations. For example, People's Bank offers an Energy Efficiency Home Equity Loan with a lower interest rate available for energy efficiency projects. Mitsubishi Diamond Contractors also offer a Mitsubishi Synchrony Financing option. 
 
Rental Neighborhood Improvement Program
This program is offered through OneHolyoke CDC and provides low-interest loans of up to $21,000/unit available for multi-family rental properties with low-income tenants for various building improvements.

Get a Free Tree Planted on Your Property through the Greening the Gateway Cities Program
Residents and business owners can order free trees to be planted on their properties in Holyoke as well as in other Gateway Cities across Massachusetts. Because trees create shade, they can reduce the amount of energy needed to cool your home or business! They can also provide air filtration, increase property values, reduce noise and increase animal habitats. Click here to request your free tree!
Alternative Energy Certificates
The Department of Energy Resources (DOER) provides the owners of qualifying alternative energy systems, including whole-home air source heat pumps, ground source heat pumps, solar hot water heaters and woody biomass (wood pellet and wood chip) systems with Alternative Energy Certificates (AECs), which can be sold to receive a financial incentive. The DOER encourages system owners to work with Aggregators who can submit your application and sell your AECs on your behalf. Please reach out to an aggregator for more information and the eligibility requirements. Here is a link to a list of aggregators located on the program webpage. 
Heating System Repair and Replacement Program
This program, offered by the Valley Opportunity Council, assists low-income homeowners who have no heat or unsafe heating conditions by providing emergency heating system repair and replacement services.
Anticipated for 2023 - Increased Rebates and Incentives Available through the Inflation Reduction Act
The Inflation Reduction Act, signed into law in August 2022, is anticipated to provide increased rebates and tax credits for various home energy efficiency projects in 2023.
Tax Credits:      • Increased tax credits will be available for various energy efficiency projects including heat pumps, rooftop solar, electric vehicles, weatherization, and various other home energy efficiency and electrification projects. Rebates that will be available will include the following:    • Rebates Available through the High–Efficiency Electric Home Rebate (HEEHRA) Program*:         • Up to $840 for a stove, cooktop, range, oven, or heat pump clothes dryer         • Up to $1,750 for a heat pump water heater         • Up to $8,000 for a heat pump for space heating or cooling         • Up to $1,600 for insulation, air sealing, and ventilation         • Up to $2,500 for electric wiring         • Up to $4,000 for an electric service panel upgrade         * Households with income below 80% of the median area income are eligible for a full rebate outlined above (capped at $14,000 for total all measures). Those with income that falls between 80% and 150% of the area median income are eligible for rebates of up to 50% of their costs (subject to the $14,000 cap).    • Rebates Available through the Whole Home Energy Reduction Rebates (HOMES) Program:         • Up to $8,000 for energy upgrades in single-family homes and up to $400,000 for multifamily buildings (Overall savings depend on energy reduction and household income level. Rebates received trough this program cannot be combined with rebates received through the HEEHRA Program).
The application process and eligibility requirements are still unclear and it is recommended that you review this whitehouse.gov webpage for more information, and to sign up for updates. You can also click here for a calculator available on rewiringamerica.org to see how much you can get back in rebates and incentives based on your zip code and household income. 

Additional HG&E Programs and incentives
Prompt Payment Discount
Our prompt payment discount offers a 10% reduction for customers who pay their bill within 15 days of receipt.
First Time Homebuyer Program
Our First Time Homebuyer Program offers a 10% bill discount to new homeowners in Holyoke.
Questions?
Contact: efficiency@hged.com
￼
Holyoke Gas & Electric 99 Suffolk Street Holyoke, MA 01040 Tel: (413) 536-9300 Toll-free: (877) 742-5443
	•	Email
	•	Map & Directions
	•	Delivery Instructions
	•	Contact Us
	•	Employment Opportunities
	•	FAQs
	•	Privacy & Usage
	•	Site Map
	•	Employee Portal
	•	Industry Links
	•	News
	•	Rules & Regulations
Community Resources
	•	City of Holyoke
	•	Chamber of Commerce
	•	Holyoke Fire Department
	•	Holyoke Police Department
	•	Holyoke Citizen Notification - Sign up
Copyright © 2023 Holyoke Gas & Electric Department. All rights reserved.
Back to Top
