￼


Braintree Electric Light Department
BELD is working with Abode to ensure that your Air Source Heat Pump is being installed to have the greatest impact on your comfort and our planet. Air source heat pumps are cost-effective, market ready technologies that transform how homes use energy. These technologies can not only help save you money on your utility bills but significantly decrease your carbon footprint.

OUR HEAT PUMP PROGRAM HAS YOU COVERED!

￼
CUSTOMER ASSISTANCE
Our specialist is available to answer questions and provide guidance when considering heat pump technology for your home.
￼
CONTRACTOR LIST
Customers have access to a list of participating contractors who understand program requirements.
￼
QUALITY ASSURANCE
Customers are provided with a quality assurance review on installs to ensure efficient operation.
￼
INCENTIVES
Rebates are available to assist homeowners' transition to clean, efficient technology to cool and heat your home.

Get started today

￼
STEP 1
Contact the Heat Pump Specialist for program information and to learn more about the benefits of heat pump adoption.
￼
STEP 2
Work with a participating contractor to determine if a heat pump is right for you.
￼
OPTIONAL STEP 3
Optionally, your contractor submits a pre-approval project application to Abode to verify equipment rebate eligibility. This step is highly recommended for whole-home heat pump projects.
￼
STEP 4
Your new heating and cooling system is installed.
￼
STEP 5
Your contractor submits a post-install form to Abode with documentation of the completed install. We review the submission for install quality and rebate eligibility.
￼
STEP 6
The rebate is processed and customers enjoy clean, efficient cooling and heating.
SCHEDULE A CONSULTATION TODAY
Select the consultation type below that best suits your current needs.

￼
"I'm thinking about heat pumps, but don't have quotes yet."

If this is your first time connecting with Abode, we recommend starting here.
SCHEDULE
	•	Learn how heat pumps work
	•	Explore heat pump types for your home
	•	Overview of operating costs & incentives
	•	Home weatherization considerations
	•	Guidance on working with installers 
￼
"I already have quotes from heat pump installers."

For an objective, impartial evaluation of proposals you’ve received.
SUBMIT QUOTES
	•	Compare up to 3 quotes
	•	Receive an evaluation report to help you understand the proposed systems
	•	If you would like to discuss the report, you'll be able to schedule time with a Specialist
￼
"I'm looking for technical guidance on heat pumps and more."

For a technical analysis of your comprehensive electrification needs.
SCHEDULE
	•	Review heat pump solutions with diagnostics when available
	•	Conduct technical review and analysis of home characteristics and system performance
	•	Whole-home decarbonization pathways
BRAINTREE ELECTRIC REBATES

*NOTE: Customers who heat their homes with gas now qualify for Mass Save heat pump rebates in addition to this rebate through BELD.

The qualifying equipment and rebate application process between BELD’s program and the Mass Save program are different, so please be sure to familiarize yourself with the eligibility requirements before installing any equipment.
MASS SAVE RESIDENTIAL REBATES
MASS SAVE COMMERCIAL REBATES
GO TO BRAINTREE WEBSITE
REBATE REQUIREMENTS

In order to qualify for a rebate, an outdoor condenser unit must be installed on a stand providing at least 12" of ground clearance to the base of the condenser unit (unless the unit is adequately shielded against snowfall from the top and sides).

In order to be eligible for a rebate through Braintree Electric Light Department, the project must adhere to Abode’s review process. There are three main steps to be aware of:
STEP 1: PRE-APPROVAL FORM (OPTIONAL)
Optionally, the Pre-Approval form can be completed by the contractor prior to installation. Once you have decided on a contractor and heat pump proposal to move forward with, if you would like to confirm eligibility for rebates prior to install, your installer can submit the Optional Pre-Approval Form. This form includes equipment information for the proposed heat pump system(s). Abode will verify whether the equipment meets the efficiency requirements to qualify for the MLP's rebate.
If you have multiple proposals and have not decided yet on a single proposal, rather than submitting multiple pre-approvals, we ask that you instead submit a "Quote Review" to Abode; see above for consultation offerings to submit quotes.
FILL OUT PRE-APPROVAL FORM >
STEP 2: INSTALL QA FORM
The Install QA Form must be completed after install by the contractor. In addition to requiring information on the home and the installed system(s), the form also requires a paid invoice and photos of the installed equipment.

FILL OUT INSTALL QA FORM >
STEP 3: ABODE REVIEW
Once Abode has received the two forms from the contractor, we will review the install and provide documentation to BELD to process the customer’s rebate. No additional action is needed by the customer or contractor unless Abode reaches out directly to request additional information.
QUALIFYING PRODUCTS

Ductless mini-split cooling-only units are not eligible.
Qualifying Products
Rebate Amount (Gas Heating Customers)
Rebate Amount (Non-Gas Heating Customers)
Efficiency Requirements
Ducted/Ductless Heat Pump
$750 per ton up to $4,500
$1,250 per ton up to $7,500
Must be on NEEP ccASHP List

PARTICIPATING CONTRACTOR LIST

Use the Participating Contractor List to find qualified installers in your area.
VIEW CONTRACTOR LIST
￼
POST-INSTALLATION SURVEY

This short customer survey helps us better understand your experience accessing utility rebates and working with your heat pump installer.
START SURVEY
Abode Energy Management
555 Virginia Road, Suite 202, Concord, MA 339-707-0918 | info@abodeEM.com
	•	Follow
	•	Follow
	•	Follow
	•	Follow
￼
1% FOR THE PLANET MEMBER
As a Massachusetts-based company working to reduce the carbon impact of our built environment, we know our communities need all the help they can get. Through 1% for the Planet, we contribute to local nonprofits to help them achieve their goals and better our world.
© Abode Energy Management | Website Design by Spark Creative Works
