
Skip to Main Content


Loading
Loading
Do Not Show Again Close

￼

Create a Website Account - Manage notification subscriptions, save form progress and more.   
	•	Website Sign In

￼

￼
￼
￼
￼

￼ Search
	1	Your Government
	2	Our Residents
	3	For Visitors
	4	Doing Business
	5	I Want To



	1	Home
	2	Your Government
	3	Departments
	4	Electric
	5	Customers (Residential)
	6	Energy Conservation and Rebates 
Energy Conservation and Rebates 
The Town offers rebates on select Energy Star appliances, electric heat pumps,￼ and Energy Star equipment. Danvers Electric customers who purchased an Energy Star certified appliance within 1 year of application submission may be eligible for a rebate.  Look for the Energy Star logo on the yellow Energy Guide that comes on all appliances for energy savings. Additionally, please check the SEER and/or HSPF rating requirements to confirm eligibility on associated equipment.
Visit the Online Rebate Portal.
Please note, all rebates are not to exceed 50% of the total purchase price excluding tax. 
	1	Central air conditioning units
$115 - Central air conditioning units must be EnergyStar rated and have a SEER(x) rating of 16.5 or higher. 
Rebate forms may be submitted online through the Online Rebate Portal if you attach the required backup documentation. You can also obtain a copy of a rebate application at Town Offices or print a Central Air Conditioning Unit Rebate Application (PDF), fill it out completely and mail it or bring it to the address on the application with the required backup documentation. Please contact the DPW with any questions.
	1	cordless electric lawn equipment
	1	dehumidifiers
	1	electric heat pump units
	1	hybrid water heat pump
	1	Level 2 EV chargers
	1	refrigerators
	1	room air conditioning units
	1	wireless-enabled smart thermostat
Danvers Electric has partnered with Energy New England to process and administer the energy conservation rebate program.  Additional information about Energy New England, Danvers energy saving rebates, the EV charger rebate program, free energy assessments, and Danvers Electric programs can be found on the ENE Site.
Learn about Energy Saving Rebates and Programs.
Questions?
Online application is in the following.  If you have any questions, please email Jeff Elie our Energy Resources Manager.
Schedule a Remote Home Energy Assessment
Being at home so much may increase your utility bills. Let Danvers Electric help you make an energy savings plan.
By using the video feature on your iPhone or Android phone, our contractor Energy New England (ENE) can capture information about your home that they need to create a comprehensive Home Energy Assessment Report. They will set up a call that takes about an hour. They'll email you the report and schedule a follow-up call with you to review it and make a short- and long-term plan.
Danvers residents can call ENE at 888-772-4242, email Energy New England, or visit the Energy New England site to schedule a free remote home energy assessment today.
Danvers Smart Savings Program
Danvers Electric is offering a demand management program to residential and small business customers. If you have a Google Nest smart thermostat connected to your central air conditioner you can participate! You will earn direct payments and your participation helps lower the electricity peak, which benefits everyone in Danvers and New England.
Customer Benefits
	•	Adopt leading consumer technology and save energy year round
	•	$60 gift card for joining program
	•	$20 gift card for participating this summer
Go to the Electric Saving Program page to enroll in the SmartSavings program today!

Contact Us
	1	Jeff Elie  Energy Resources Manager Email Jeff Elie  
	2	Public Works - Electric Division Physical Address View Map 
	3	1 Burroughs Street
	4	Danvers, MA 01923   
	5	  Directions   Phone 978-774-0005 Fax 978-774-5623  Hours Monday through Wednesday 7 am to 3 pm Thursday 7 am to 5:30 pm Friday  7 am to noon  


	1	Danvers Drives Electric 
	2	Electric Vehicle Time of Use Rate 
	3	Residential Solar PV Program 
	4	Smart Savings Program 


PAYMENTS
NOTIFY ME®
EMPLOYMENT


AGENDAS & MINUTES
PROJECTS AND DEVELOPMENT
PERMITS


	1	￼


￼
￼
￼
￼


Contact Us
	1	Town of Danvers 1 Sylvan Street  Danvers, MA 01923  Phone: 978-777-0001

Quick Links
	1	Budgets 
	2	Bylaws 
	3	Flag Status 
	4	Resilient Danvers 
	5	Strategic Danvers 
	6	Trash and Recycling 

/QuickLinks.aspx
Site Links
	1	Home 
	2	Site Map 
	3	Contact Us 
	4	Social Media Policy (PDF) 
	5	Accessibility 
	6	Copyright Notices 
	7	Privacy Policy 

/QuickLinks.aspx
Government Websites by CivicPlus®

[]
