RECHARGEABLE ELECTRIC

YARD EQUIPMENT REBATES

Required For Processing: 1. Completed Rebate Form 2. Copy of Dated Sales Receipt 3. Copy of Electric Bill

Mail Required Items to: HLP Appliance Rebates 49 Forest Ave Hudson, MA 01749

Please Allow 6 - 8 Weeks for Processing

Product Information

Select Qualifying Lawn Equipment (One Per Application):  Rechargeable Battery Operated Lawn Mower - $100  Rechargeable Battery Operated Snow Blower - $100  Rechargeable Battery Hedge Trimmer- $40  Rechargeable Battery Pressure Washer - $50  Rechargeable Battery Rototiller- $40  Rechargeable Battery Chain or Pole Saw -$50  Rechargeable Battery Leaf Blower- $40  Rechargeable Battery String Trimmer- $40
 Zero- Turn Riding Electric Lawn Mower - $400  Electric Riding Lawn Mower (not zero-turn) - $200

Electric Customer Information
Account Number
Customer Name Service Address
Street, City, State, Zip

Brand

Email

Model Purchase Price

Phone
Mailing Address
Street, City, State, Zip
(if different from above)

Purchase Date

Store Name X.

Store Address

Customer Signature
By signing this form, I certify that: I purchased the indicated appliance for use at

Street, City, State, Zip OR Website Address

the service address listed on this form; I am an electric customer of the utility listed above; and that to the best of my knowledge, the information provided is correct and accurate. I am providing the requested information solely to be

eligible to participate in this program and request that the personal information

Some Restrictions Apply:

supplied by me be treated as confidential to the maximum extent possible.

 Only NEW Yard Equipment is Eligible for Rebate; Refurbished or Used Not Eligible

 Device Must be Cordless, with a Rechargeable Battery

 1 Rebate of Each of the Devices Listed Above Every 3 Years

 Maximum Rebate is 50% of the Purchase Price of Each Item
 Light Dept. Reserves the Right to End these Rebates at Any Time  Do Not Mail this Rebate Form with Utility Payment
 Must Be Purchased 1/1/2023 and 12/31/2023. Applications Must be Postmarked by 1/31/2024 and Sent to the Address Above.
 If Multiple Tools Purchased in a Bundle, Use 1 Form per Bundle; Check All Tools in Bundle

Have Questions? Need More Information?
Call (978)-568-8736 or email
info@hudsonlight.com

