
Skip to Main Content


Loading
Loading
Do Not Show Again Close


Create a Website Account - Manage notification subscriptions, save form progress and more.   
	•	Website Sign In

￼
￼ Search
	1	Government
	2	Services
	3	Community
	4	Doing Business
	5	How Do I...


	1	Home
	2	Government
	3	Departments
	4	Electric
	5	Incentives
ReSource Ipswich
￼
ReSource Ipswich is the first in-state utility decarbonization program, brought to you by the Town of Ipswich Utilities Department. 
Home Efficiency Audits
It all starts with a no-cost home efficiency audit to learn how your home can be more efficient. A qualified efficiency expert will explore your home and evaluate what changes you can make to reduce carbon usage. Once the audit is complete, our experts will provide you with an action plan  to help you to prioritize energy efficiency, electrification, waste reduction and water conservation measures in and around your home. Completing the recommended measures will not only improve comfort, but also save money!
Call (866) 306-0909 to schedule your no-cost audit today!
OR
Book your appointment on-line by visiting our Online Scheduling page.
￼
Read More Here!
Or Visit:
https://www.rewiringamerica.org/app/ira-calculator

Events
October 1-7, 2023
￼
September 23, 2023 10am-1pm
Ipswich Drives (and Rides) Electric!
CALLING ALL EV ENTHUSIASTS and FUTURE EV OWNERS! 
Join us at the Town Hall to show off your Electric Vehicle, or learn about EV ownership
	•	Kick the tires of the Ford Lightning
	•	Ask current EV owners about the benefits of EV driving
	•	Check out the Radical Adventures New England E-Bikes!
	•	Learn about available incentives for going electric.
June 3, 2023 10am-2pm 
The Sustainable Summer Showcase is coming back for its 2nd year, bigger and better than last year! 
Come learn about battery powered lawn equipment from Stihl USA, hear from State Representative Kristin Kassner about local and state-wide decarbonization initiatives, learn about how you can reduce energy usage and costs in your home by signing up for a no-cost audit, enjoy live music, and local food and so much more! Check back for more information as we get closer to June.....￼
April 13 7pm-9pm
Join the conversation about the challenges posed by sea level rise and opportunities for coastal reconstruction. Hear from the Water Department, and Public works about projects and plans related to adapting to climate change. ReSource will be there to provide information about our decarbonization program too!
￼
December 3 9am-Noon
Recycle your old incandescent string lights with us, and receive a 15% coupon for new LED string lights to thank you for choosing to recycle!
￼

Visit our informational booth at the Downtown Tuesday, and Castle Hill Concerts all summer long!
￼￼
Sustainable Summer Showcase June 4, 2022 10am-1pm
￼

Connected Homes Program
Refer to the table below to learn which devices and brands are eligible for participation in Connected Homes.
Smart Devices
Qualifying Brands
Monthly Incentive
Battery
Generac
$30
Battery
Duracell
$30
Battery
Emporia
$30
Battery
Sonnen
$30
Electric Vehicle Charger
ChargePoint
$10
Electric Vehicle Charger
Enel X JuiceBox
$10
Electric Vehicle Charger
Emporia
$10
Electric Hot Water Heater
GE
$5
Electric Hot Water Heater
Rheem
$5
Mini-Split Controller
Flair
$5
Mini-Split Controller
Sensibo
$5
Wi-Fi Thermostat
Google Nest**
$5
Wi-Fi Thermostat
Honeywell/Resideo
$5
Frequently Asked Questions
￼
Air Source Heat Pump Assessment 
Are you interested in upgrading your home heating and cooling system and want to explore clean energy options? Consider purchasing an air source heat pump. Ipswich Electric Light Department (IELD) customers are eligible for a no-cost air source heat pump assessment!  Schedule a no-cost, no-obligation consultation with an independent heat pump expert to learn how the technology works, understand how they can reduce your heating costs, and receive guidance on using heat pumps for supplementary or whole-home heating. This assessment will ensure that the air source heat pump size and configuration is optimized for your home and heating and cooling goals, helping to avoid the risk of an oversized or undersized system and outsized bills. 
Call (866) 306-0909 for your assessment. 
Available Rebates and Incentives
Energy Star Rated Appliances
Rebates are available for the following appliances that meet Energy Star's current standards. Additional requirements and conditions may be required. Visit energystar.gov to see if your purchase qualifies.
Appliance
Rebate Amount
Dehumidifier
$30.00
Air Purifier
$40.00
Refrigerator
$50.00
Freezer >12 Cu Ft
$50.00
Clothes Washer
$50.00
Heat Pump Dryer (Electric)
$500.00
Pool Pump (Two Speed)
$175.00
Pool Pump (Variable Speed)
$250.00
Heat Pump Water Heater (≤55 gal. & Electric)
$500.00
Induction Stove Range / Cook-tops
up to $750.00
WaterSense  Labeled Products
Customers purchasing WaterSense labeled products are eligible for the following rebates. Visit epa.gov/watersense for a qualified product list.
Product
Rebate Amount
Low Flow Toilets
$100.00
Showerheads
25% up to $50.00
Bathroom Faucets
25% up to $50.00
Irrigation Controllers
25% up to $100
Spray Sprinkler Bodies
25%
Pre-Rinse Spray Valves
25% up to $50.00


￼
￼
Electric Yard Equipment
One of each equipment type per customer allowed. Eligibility of miscellaneous items is subject to change and may not be limited to the following items; hedge trimmer, leaf blower, power washer, etc. Contact the Utilities Department for more information regarding eligibility. 
Equipment Type
Rebate Amount
Zero-Turn Riding Lawn Mower
50% up to $400
Riding Lawn Mower (Not Zero Turn)
50% up to $200
Push Lawn Mower
50% up to $100
Snow Blower
50% up to $100
Miscellaneous Equipment
50% up to $40

Wi-Fi Smart Thermostats
A rebate of 50% of the product cost, up to $125 is available for eligible customers who purchase a Nest or Honeywell brand Wi-Fi enabled smart thermostat.
Customers who enroll their new device in our Connected Homes Program, are eligible to receive a full rebate of the cost!
Connected Homes Program
Connected Homes is a new program that leverages the technology of smart appliances and devices into cost savings on electricity prices- which we then pass on to you! Eligible devices include batteries, electric vehicle chargers, thermostats, and more!
Learn more and enroll by visiting the Connected Homes Program website!
Weatherization Services
A rebate of 75% of the cost (up to $2,000) is available for the following efficiency measures after completion of a FREE Home Efficiency Assessment through the ReSource Ipswich program. Customers who install air source heat pumps along with these measures are eligible for a full 75% of the weatherization project cost with NO incentive limit!
Measure
Rebate Amount
Blower Door Test & Air Sealing and Insulation (must be bundles with air sealing when recommended)
75%, up to $2,000
Measures Bundled with Air Source Heat Pump Installation
75% Total Weatherization Project Cost
High-Efficiency Heat Pumps
Massachusetts has ambitious emissions reduction targets, and transitioning residential heating systems to rely on electricity rather than fossil fuels is a key component to making that happen. The transition benefits homeowners with potentially lower heating costs, cleaner in home air quality and the ability to heat and cool a home with less equipment. 
Qualified systems are air-source heat pumps or ductless mini-split heat pumps meeting NEEP standards. 
A total rebate of $1,000 per year is available for eligible households that install a qualified system. Customers are strongly encouraged to complete a no-cost Home Efficiency Audit or Air Source Heat Pump Assessment prior to their project. 
ADDITIONAL Resources!
Rebates up to $10,000 are now available through MassSave for Ipswich residents replacing natural gas with air source heat pumps! 
Click here for more information.
Need Help With Financing Your Project?
Ipswich residents, served by National Grid for Gas may be eligible for the MassSave HEAT Loan.
The Mass Save® HEAT Loan offers interest-free financing opportunities up to $25,000 for energy-efficient home upgrades like the installation of air source heat pumps (central or ductless mini-split), ground source heat pumps, heat pump water heaters , insulation, and more for natural gas customers. To get started, call Mass Save at 866-527-SAVE to schedule a Home Energy Assessment. A Mass Save representative will provide information on opportunities to improve your efficiency and where financing can help.
￼
Electric Vehicles
Electric Vehicle Chargers Customers who install qualifying, Level 2 chargers for their home also qualify for a Free charger, (up to $700) with enrollment in the Connected Homes Program!
Charging Stations Around Ipswich
￼
Solar PV Interconnection
Ipswich Electric Light Department customers interested in pursuing solar interconnection should review the ELD's Solar Interconnection Process & Application document.   Please be aware, those pursuing the ELD's current incentive of $0.30/watt, up to $3,000, should consider the ELD’s requirements for Interconnection, which are detailed in our Distributed Generation Net Metering Policy, and the requirements for the incentive program. 
Additional Resources
	•	The Massachusetts Clean Energy Center -  For more information about adopting clean energy visit MassCEC.com.
	•	Greenscapes North Shore Coalition - Sustainable landscaping practices drastically reduce water usage, encourage groundwater recharge, protect our water supply, and reduce stormwater pollution. Learn more about sustainable landscaping practices at greenscapes.org 
	•	Ipswich Public Library - Want to test out electric lawn equipment before you buy? Visit the Library of Things at ipswichlibrary.org to see a catalog of their lendable items and reserve your today!
	•	Black Earth Compost - Curbside Composting -The Ipswich Waste Reduction Advisory Committee, in conjunction with the Department of Public Works, encourages residents to participate in the curbside food waste collection. Black Earth Compost picks up organics at your curb each Wednesday. Participants receive a free 12-gallon, wheeled collection cart with a locking lid. Participate in compost pickups and return food scraps and other organic material to the soil to be reused. 
Interested in participating? 
Email IpswichComposts@gmail.com with questions or sign up online at Black Earth Compost.
	•	Deconstruction and Recovery of Building Materials -  Recovering materials such as kitchen cabinets, lumber, flooring, plumbing fixtures, windows, and doors for reuse keeps material out of the landfill, saves on disposal costs, and donors qualify for a tax deduction if the material goes to a registered 501 (c)3 non-profit.
 There are several places to donate used building materials in Massachusetts and many offer pick up.
EcoBuilding Bargains
ecobuildingbargains.org
413-788-6900
Boston Building Resources
bostonbuildingresources.com
617-442-2262
Habitat for Humanity ReStore
restorencm.org/donate
978-227-5556
 If you want to learn more about deconstruction, or need help getting started, call the RecyclingWorks in MA hotline at 888-254-5525 or visit their website.
	•	WaterSense- A voluntary partnership program sponsored by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), is both a label for water-efficient products and a resource for helping you save water. Visit the website for tips and tricks to reduce your water usage and find products that use at least 20% less water and save energy!
	•	Energy Star- A  program run by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and U.S. Department of Energy that promotes energy efficiency, and  provides information on the energy consumption of products and devices to save money and make your home more energy efficient. Visit the website to learn more about lowering energy bills, improving comfort, and reducing emissions in your home. 




	1	Solar PV 
	2	Wi-Fi Smart Thermostat 
	3	High-Efficiency Heat Pumps 
	4	ENERGY STAR Appliances 
	5	Weatherization Services Incentive 
	6	Commercial Energy Efficiency 
	7	Electric Vehicle Chargers 
	8	Electric Yard Equipment 
	9	Ipswich Energy Challenge 


Payments
Jobs
Permits
Agendas & Minutes
Concerns


	1	￼


Snow Emergency Line: 978-412-8705


Contact Us
	1	Town Hall 25 Green Street Ipswich, MA 01938 Phone: 978-356-6600 Town Hall hours: Mon. 8:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. Tues-Thurs 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Fridays 8:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. Offices are closed on weekends and holidays.


Quick Links
	1	Board & Committee Appointment Request Form 
	2	Charter, Legislation, Bylaws and Regulations (PDF) 
	3	Directions 
	4	Emergency Preparedness 
	5	Employee Access 
	6	GIS Mapping 

/QuickLinks.aspx

Site Links
	1	Home 
	2	Contact Us 
	3	FAQs 
	4	Photo Credit 
	5	Copyright Notices 
	6	Accessibility 

/QuickLinks.aspx
Government Websites by CivicPlus®

[]
