￼
NEW SERVICE
STOP SERVICE
PAY MY BILL
Search

Search

(978) 540-2222
Facebook

Instagram

￼

Menu
		Home
		Electric
		Water
		Sewer
		Service
		Community
		News & Meetings
		Green Rewards
		New Service
		Pay My Bill
Cordless Electric Yard Equipment Rebate
LELWD is pleased to offer rebates to customers purchasing qualified cordless electric (battery powered) equipment. Let’s reduce our carbon footprint by reducing the use of gas and oil dependent equipment!
Terms and Conditions and Printable Application
Why use battery yard equipment? Help lower your carbon footprint by using cordless electric yard equipment! Battery powered yard equipment does not require gasoline or oil to operate and there are no fumes or exhaust while in use. Without a gas engine, maintenance is minimal and operating is much quieter and weighs less!
Eligibility: This program offers rebates for LELWD’s residential customers who purchase qualified cordless electric yard equipment. Equipment must be intended for the sole use at the service location of the applying customer. Verification of cordless yard equipment is required and rebates are subject to availability of funds. LELWD reserves the right to change or terminate this program at any time.
Qualifying products: Equipment listed in the table below must be new cordless electric yard equipment, which requires a minimum of 18 volts to be eligible for a rebate.
Riding Lawn Mower- $200
Push Lawn Mower-   $100
Leaf Blower- $40
Chain Saw-   $40
Hedge Trimmers- $40
String Trimmers-  $40

Rebate Amounts & Payments: Rebate amounts are listed above and are subject to change at any time. Rebates are limited to one per eligible product listed and cannot exceed 50% of the purchase price. Rebate applications will be processed as they are received and rebates will be issued in the form of a bill credit.
Verification: A copy of original sales receipt indicating purchase price, item, brand, model, date, and retailer. LELWD reserves the right to request documentation verifying ownership of products. Incomplete applications will be returned.
Additional Information: Call LELWD at (978) 540-2222 or email [email protected].
To Claim: Please submit online below, or mail in the completed application, along with a copy of the sales receipt showing make and model, and provide the specifications as required:
LELWD 39 Ayer Road P.O. Box 2406 Littleton, MA 01460

		Name* First Last 
		Service Address* Street Address Town ZIP / Postal Code  
		Phone
		Email* 
		Electric Account Number* 
		Lawn Equipment*
		Riding Lawn Mower Push Lawn Mower Leaf Blower Chain Saw Hedge Trimmer String Trimmer
		 Equipment must be cordless and powered by a minimum of 18 volts.
		Brand* 
		Model* 
		Required Voltage* 
		Date Purchased*Must be within one year of applying for this rebate MM slash DD slash YYYY 
		Upload Copies of Receipts* Drop files here or  Select files   Max. file size: 16 MB.  
		**By signing below, you acknowledge that:
	•	You have purchased the product(s) described above for the sole use at the location indicated.
	•	You understand that LELD or its designated representative reserves the right to inspect or otherwise verify ownership.
	•	You understand that the rebate program is a limited time offer and is subject to the availability of funds from LELD.
		Signature* 
		Date* MM slash DD slash YYYY 
		Other Comments
		CAPTCHA


Customer Service Links
		Customer Portal
		Contact Us
		Facebook
		Green Rewards
		Job Opportunities
		Staff Directory
￼
￼
￼
￼
￼
COMPANY LINKS

Menu
		Home
		About Us
		Customer Service
		Green Rewards
		Job Opportunities
		Contact Us
		Employee Portal
		Electrical Inspector Portal
		Mobile App Privacy Policy
OFFICE HOURS
Mon-Thurs 6:30 a.m. – 4:30 p.m.
Friday-Sunday Closed
CONTACT US
39 Ayer Road P.O. Box 2406 Littleton, MA 01460
T: 978-540-2222 [email protected]
￼
Facebook

Instagram

		 2023 LELWD - Electric Light & Water Departments. All Rights Reserved
