￼
NEW SERVICE
STOP SERVICE
PAY MY BILL
Search

Search

(978) 540-2222
Facebook

Instagram

￼

Menu
		Home
		Electric
		Water
		Sewer
		Service
		Community
		News & Meetings
		Green Rewards
		New Service
		Pay My Bill
On-Demand Electric Water Heater Rebate
LELWD is pleased to offer rebates to customers purchasing qualified electric on-demand (tankless) water heaters. 
Terms and Conditions and Printable Application
What is an On-Demand (Tankless) Water Heater? An on-demand water heater is a system that heats water instantaneously, only when it is needed, without the use of a storage tank.
Is an On-Demand Water Heater Right for Me? While tankless water heaters can certainly provide savings by avoiding standby heat loss from storage water heaters, there are several factors to consider before buying and installing:
	•	Multiple Use – On-demand units have a limited flow rate which can impact the need to use hot water simultaneously for multiple uses. Determine your hot water demand before purchasing to help calculate the appropriate water heater size
	•	Installation Cost– Installing a tankless water heater can be more costly than a standard storage water heater. It is always a good idea to get a few quotes from qualified contractors before purchasing.
	•	To learn more and help calculate the right size and water heater for you, visit  https://www.energy.gov/energysaver/heat-and-cool/water-heating/tankless-or-demand-type-water-heaters
Eligibility: This program offers rebates for residential customers who have a licensed contractor install an on-demand (tankless) water heater to replace or upgrade their existing water heater. New construction is ineligible for this rebate. Customers in Littleton Electric Light Department (LELD) service area are eligible for rebates subject to the availability of funds from LELD.  LELD reserves the right to change any portion of this program or end this program at any time without notice.
Qualifying Purchases :(1) Must be an electric on-demand, tankless water heater; 18kW or greater. (2) Purchase must be made within 1 year of application date.
Rebate amounts and payments: Rebates will be $100, and cannot exceed 50% of the purchase price, limited to one per household. Rebate applications will be processed as they are received and rebates will be issued in the form of a bill credit.
Verification: A copy of original sales receipt indicating make, model, purchase date, purchase location, and price must accompany rebate application. Incomplete applications will be returned.
Additional Information: Call LELWD at (978) 540-2222 or email [email protected]
To Claim: Please submit online below, or mail in the completed application, along with a copy of the sales receipt showing make and model, and provide the specifications as required:
LELWD 39 Ayer Road P.O. Box 2406 Littleton, MA 01460

		Name* First Last 
		Service Address* Street Address Town ZIP / Postal Code  
		Phone
		Email* 
		Electric Account Number* 
		Brand* 
		Model* 
		Fuel Type*Electric Natural Gas Propane Other 
		Electrical Requirement (kW)* 
		Date Purchased*Must be within one year of applying for this rebate MM slash DD slash YYYY 
		Upload Copies of Receipts* Drop files here or  Select files   Max. file size: 16 MB.  
		**By signing below, you acknowledge that:
	•	You have purchased the product(s) described above for the installation at the location indicated; which is not new construction.
	•	You understand that LELD or its designated representative reserves the right to inspect or otherwise verify installation.
	•	You understand that the rebate program is a limited time offer and is subject to the availability of funds from LELD.
		Signature* 
		Date* MM slash DD slash YYYY 
		Other Comments
		CAPTCHA


Customer Service Links
		Customer Portal
		Contact Us
		Facebook
		Green Rewards
		Job Opportunities
		Staff Directory
￼
￼
￼
￼
￼
COMPANY LINKS

Menu
		Home
		About Us
		Customer Service
		Green Rewards
		Job Opportunities
		Contact Us
		Employee Portal
		Electrical Inspector Portal
		Mobile App Privacy Policy
OFFICE HOURS
Mon-Thurs 6:30 a.m. – 4:30 p.m.
Friday-Sunday Closed
CONTACT US
39 Ayer Road P.O. Box 2406 Littleton, MA 01460
T: 978-540-2222 [email protected]
￼
Facebook

Instagram

		 2023 LELWD - Electric Light & Water Departments. All Rights Reserved
