Danvers Electric Division Level 2 EV Charger Rebate Application DED is pleased to offer rebates for new Level 2 EV Chargers. Please read the terms and conditions below to ensure that you
qualify for a rebate.
Eligibility Requirements & Restrictions:

 $300 maximum in EV charger rebates per residential account per year.
 EV Chargers must be UL listed, Energy Star certified, and have Level 2 charging
 Equipment must be purchased by Danvers Electric Customer and used at service address' location.
 Applications require vehicle registration, receipt for the charger, installer invoice, and this form. Incomplete applications may delay processing by 4-6 weeks. Normal processing time for complete applications is 8-10 weeks.
 Rebate payment will be issued as a check payment from our rebate partner, Energy New England (ENE)
 Offer is subject to funding and can expire at any time. DED can also terminate the program at any time.
 Danvers Electric Division does not warrant, endorse or assume liability for the quality, performance, or safety of the contractor, retailer and/or wholesaler or performance of any appliance,fixture, orequipment use. Responsibility for choosing the product is solely the applicant's.The town of Danversassumes no liability for installation or use.

 Your electric account must be active, residential, and in good standing. Applications from accounts not in good standing will be held until full payment is received. A DPW representative will contact you for payment.
 You agree to allow DED to inspect charger installation on your premises. Applicant agrees and understands that the Danvers Electric Division does not guarantee that the installation of an Level 2 EV Charger will result in energy savings, as site-specific energy consumption varies.
 Applications must be submitted to the application portal or postmarked within 365 days of installation.

Application submission and questions:

Phone: 888-772-4242

Email: rebates@ene.org

Mailing Address:
Energy New England: Rebates 5 Hampshire St, Suite 100 Mansfield, MA 02048

Danvers Electric Division Level 2 EV Charger Rebate Application
Do not leave any fields blank. Print clearly in all caps. If approved, you will receive a check in 8 - 10 weeks. If denied, you will receive notice. Incomplete
applications can delay processing time by 4 - 6 weeks.

Applicant Information: Name (First, Last):

Account Number:

Primary Phone:

Address: Purchase Date:

Email: (Receipt must be dated within 180 days of application submission)

Installer Information: Company Name:
Street Address: City:

State:

Company Phone: Zip Code:

Email

Charging System Components Installed: check all that apply

240-volt Wiring Circuit Charger Make and Model:

NEMA 14-50 Outlet

Danvers Electric Division Level 2 EV Charger Rebate Application
Do not leave any fields blank. Print clearly in all caps. If approved, you will receive a check in 8 - 10 weeks. If denied, you will receive notice. Incomplete
applications can delay processing time by 4 - 6 weeks.

Complete application by including : This application Vehicle Registration Installer Invoice

Level 2 Charger Receipt Approved Electrical Inspection

I have hereby read and understand the eligibility requirements and declare that I meet those requirements.

Signature:

Date:

_______________

Application submission and questions:

Phone: 888-772-4242

Email: rebates@ene.org

Mailing Address:
Energy New England: Rebates 5 Hampshire St, Suite 100 Mansfield, MA 02048

