CALL 1-833-44-EV-ENE (1-833-443-8363) | EMAIL ev@ene.org
￼
	•	BUYING GUIDE
	◦	Electric Car Basics
	◦	Compare Cars
	◦	Rebates & Incentives (Vehicles)
	•	CHARGING GUIDE
	◦	Car Charging Basics
	◦	Charging Equipment
	◦	Home Installation Help
	◦	Rebates & Incentives (Charging)
	◦	Commercial Charging
	•	WHY DRIVE ELECTRIC
	◦	Benefits to Drivers
	◦	Benefits to All
	◦	FAQS
	•	UPCOMING EVENTS
	•	COMMERCIAL CHARGING
	•	BLOG
	•	CONTACT
MENU

Charging Guide

Car Charging Basics
Charging Equipment
Home Installation Help
Rebates & Incentives (Charging)




MGED Drives Electric Rewards For...

Charging Times
Our off-peak charging program is currently on hold as we upgrade to a new system in the coming months.  You may still apply for the Level 2 charging station rebate but you will need to join our program waitlist and conform to the off-peak charging hours.  Please click the “Enroll Now” button below to be contacted for the requirements.


Charging Stations
Need a new Level 2 EV charger?
A Level 2 charging system consists of a 240 volt wiring circuit from your house electrical panel to a NEMA 14-50 outlet or to a home EV charging station.
	•	MGED will pay a rebate of up to $300 (but no more than half the cost) for the purchase and installation of a certified Level 2 EV charger (240 volt system) or higher speed to charge an electric vehicle at your home.
	•	MGED will soon provide an additional monthly reward for charging your EV off-peak. More details to come.
Got your charger already? Get rewards for off-peak charging!
Great! You’re ready for the next steps!
Eligibility
You are eligible to receive rewards if you:
	•	own a battery electric vehicle (BEV*), or a plug-in hybrid electric vehicle (PHEV*), and
	•	charge your EV in MGED territory at Level 1 or Level 2 and have a MGED residential electric connection on an account under your name
	•	provide documentation, as listed, that your Level 2 charging system was installed there for this purpose within calendar year of purchase, and
	•	Agree to the terms and sign the MGED Off-peak EV Charging agreement.
Contact us to get more information.
Installation Requirements
Electrical work for this installation must be done by a licensed electrician under an electrical permit issued by your town, and must have passed inspection by the Town’s Electrical Inspector.
Applying for your rebate
You should have your charging system installed and ready to go before you drive your new EV home for the first time!
	1	Applicant must join waitlist for future off peak program and complete off peak charging agreement
	2	Provide Vehicle Registration
	3	Provide Invoice from electrician who performed the charger installation
	4	Provide Receipt of purchase for your Level-2 EV charger
	5	Share screen shot of your in-vehicle charging schedule set to start at 8:00pm 
	6	Share a picture of your installed home charging station
	7	Your charger rebate will be credited on your MGED bill*.
*Please allow 8-10 weeks for rebate processing.
Enroll Now


Energy New England
	•	5 Hampshire St., Suite 100 Mansfield, MA 02048
	•	508-698-1200
	•	508-698-0222
	•	solutions@ene.org
	•	www.ene.org
Website
social media
Join Our Newsletter

Copyright 2023 - Energy New England, LLC
Close Menu

