Danvers Electric Division Cordless Electric Outdoor Equipment Application DED is pleased to offer rebates for new electric outdoor equipment. Please read the terms and conditions below to ensure that you
qualify for a rebate.
Eligibility Requirements & Restrictions:

 $500 maximum in cordless lawn equipment rebates per residential account per year.
 Your electric account must be active, residential, and in good standing. Applications from accounts not in good standing will be held until full payment is received. A DPW representative will contact you for payment.
 Equipment must be electric, cordless, and battery powered (replacing a gas- powered or wired piece of equipment)
 Equipment must be purchased by Danvers Electric Customer and used at service address' location.

 Applications require a copy of your sales receipt, Proof of Purchase (must include description of item, purchase date, price paid, and purchased from) and this form. Incomplete applications will delay processing by 4-6 weeks. Normal processing time for complete applications is 8-10 weeks.
 You agree to allow DED to inspect appliance installation on your premises. Applicant agrees and understands that the Danvers Electric Division does not guarantee that the installation of an Energy Star-certified fixture will result in energy savings, as site-specific energy consumption varies.

 Rebate payment will be issued as a check payment from our rebate partner, Energy New England (ENE)
 Offer is subject to funding and can expire at any time. DED can also terminate the program at any time.
 Danvers Electric Division does not warrant, endorse or assume liability for the quality, performance, or safety of the contractor, retailer and/or wholesaler or performance of any appliance,fixture, orequipment use. Responsibility for choosing the product is solely the applicant's.The town of Danversassumes no liability for installation or use.

Application submission and questions:

Phone: 888-772-4242

Email: rebates@ene.org

Mailing Address:
Energy New England: Rebates 5 Hampshire St, Suite 100 Mansfield, MA 02048

Danvers Electric Division Cordless Electric Outdoor Equipment Application Do not leave any fields blank. Print clearly in all caps. If a pproved, you will receive a check in 8 - 10 weeks. If denied, you will receive notice. Incomplete applications can delay processing time by 4 - 6 weeks.

$200 Riding Lawn Mower
$200 Snow Blower
Name (First, Last):

$150 Push Lawn Mower
$40 Leaf Blowers

$40 String & Hedge Trimmers, Edgers, and Rototillers
$50 Pressure Washers

$50 Chain and Pole Saws

Account Number:

Primary Phone:

Address:

Purchase Date:

Brand:

(Receipt must be dated within 180 days of application submission)

Email:

Model #:

Complete application by including:

Proof of purchase.(must include description of
item, purchase date, price paid, and purchased from.)

This application Sales receipt

I have hereby read and understand the eligibility requirements and declare that I meet those requirements.

Signature:

Date:

_______________

Application submission and questions:

Phone: 888-772-4242

Email: rebates@ene.org

Mailing Address:
Energy New England: Rebates 5 Hampshire St, Suite 100 Mansfield, MA 02048

