
Skip to Main Content


Loading
Loading
Do Not Show Again Close


Create a Website Account - Manage notification subscriptions, save form progress and more.   
	•	Website Sign In

￼
	1	Residents
	2	Businesses
	3	Energy Savings, Rebates, and Ways to Save
	4	Safety Resources
	5	About MGED

￼
￼
￼
￼


Outage Center

￼ Search


	1	Home
	2	Energy Savings, Rebates, and Ways to Save
	3	Home Energy Saving Rebates
	4	Heat Pump Rebates & Resources
Heat Pump Rebates & Resources
If you are considering heat pumps for your home, MGED strongly encourages you to take advantage of Abode’s no-cost heat pump consultations. Abode’s Heat Pump Specialists are dedicated to providing you with objective, impartial advice on heat pumps and how they may be a good fit for your home. Whether you are just starting to explore the technology or have already met with contractors, Abode is happy to assist. If you’ve already received quotes from installers,
Abode can provide you with a quote comparison report evaluating up to three proposed systems, to help you make an educated decision on which proposed systems will perform efficiently and meet your project goals. Schedule a no-cost virtual consultation with a Heat Pump Specialist to receive assistance with:
● Understanding how heat pumps work
● Rebates & incentives offered by MGED
● Guidance on the best solutions for your home
● Working with contractors
● Reviewing and comparing quotes
Schedule Here
Quality Assurance Process
Abode provides a quality assurance process that all heat pump projects must follow in order to receive a rebate. After installation is complete, your contractor must submit the Install Quality Assurance (QA) Form to Abode. The form is submitted online and requires documentation including pictures of the installed equipment. Both the contractor and customer will receive an email confirmation once reviewed & approved. 
Homeowners and contractors who wish to verify rebate eligibility prior to system installation may opt into submitting an optional rebate pre-approval form. Contractors can submit the Optional Pre-Approval Form online with details on the proposed equipment, and Abode will review the project to verify it qualifies for MGED rebates. Both the customer and contractor will receive an email confirmation once pre-approved. If equipment changes from pre-approval to installation, Abode and MGED cannot guarantee rebate eligibility. The optional pre-approval does not exempt the project from the required Install QA Form, which must be submitted by the contractor following installation.
Rebates
All qualifying equipment must be listed in the CEE/AHRI Verified Directories as meeting or exceeding the efficiency minimums and be chosen from the Northeast Energy Efficiency Partnership's (NEEP's) current Cold Climate Air Source Heat Pump (ccASHP) Specification List.
Rebates Offered:
Ratings Minimums
Rebate Amount
Low Income Rebate Amount
Single Zone (ductless) Mini Split
SEER = 18 or >
HSPF = 10 or >
$500 / ton up to $2,000
$750 / ton up to $3,000
Central, Multi-Split, ducted Mini Split
SEER = 16 or >
HSPF = 9.5 or >
$500 / ton up to $2,000
$750 / ton up to $3,000
Replacement Bonus - when replacing central AC or older HP
SEER = 16 or >
HSPF = 9.5 or >
$500 (combined maximum of $2,500)
$750 (combined maximum of $3,750)

Program requirements: Reside in or own a single-family detached, multi-family attached (up to four dwelling units) or mobile home or apartment/condo (up to four dwelling units) in Middleborough or Lakeville. Have a pre-qualifying Home Energy Evaluation (audit) completed within the last 2 years before installation of your system. Complete the Install Quality Assurance (QA) form with Abode prior to having the system installed to verify it qualifies for MGED rebates. Allow a post-installation inspection if requested. If applying for the replacement bonus; Removal confirmation of Central A/C or HP unit on either the invoice or disposal/haul-away documentation.
Please note new construction does not qualify. Residential customers are limited to one rebate per calendar year. Multi-family homeowners may apply per unit, up to 4 units per calendar year.
What is an Air-Source Heat Pump?
While traditional systems burn fuel to create heat, a heat pump instead works by drawing heat from the surrounding air. They work in a similar way to air-conditioners but in reverse, using a transfer of heat over coils extracting heat from the air which is moved into and out of your home. That's why they work both as a heating system and a cooling system.
Benefits: Though they require electricity to operate, people who currently have conventional electric resistance or propane-fueled heating systems can save 50% - 70% on energy costs by heating with an air-source heat pump instead. At current fuel prices, oil heating households can save up to 30%. If you have a separate central air system that you are replacing, your savings is multiplied!
Read the NEEP Guide to learn the basics
Read the Northeast Energy Efficiency Partnerships' Air source Heat Pump Buying Guide. NEEP it is one of six Regional Energy Efficiency Organizations (REEOs) funded, in part, by U.S. Department of Energy to support state efficiency policies and programs.
The Guide (PDF) will explain:
	•	The basics of heat pump operation
	•	How to shop for your heat pump like a pro
	•	With step by step instructions and
	•	Checklist of questions to ask your installer
What does this mean?
SEER = Seasonal Energy Efficiency Ratio - a commonly used rating for cooling efficiency technology - the higher the number, the more efficient the system
HSPF = Heating Seasonal Performance Factor - a standard efficiency rating for heat pump technology - the higher the number, the more efficient the system
AHRI listing = Certification from the Air Conditioning, Heating and Refrigeration Institute confirms the systems as listed and as combined perform as specified by their ratings.



	1	Cordless Electric Yard Equipment Rebates 
	2	Heat Pump Rebates & Resources 
	3	MGED Energy Star Appliance Rebates Details & Terms 
	4	MGED Weatherization & Insulation Rebates Details and Terms 
	5	Peak Alerts Let's You Know When to Beat the Peak 
	6	Lakeville Residents Only - Mass Save Eligibility 
	7	Additional Tax Incentives - Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) 


View Pay Bill
Energy Rebates
Forms


Moving In/Out
Payment Assistance
Where Do I Go For


	1	￼


Contact Us
	1	Middleborough Gas and Electric 32 South Main Street,  Middleborough, MA 02346  Phone: 508-947-1371  Hours:  8:00 am – 4:00 pm Monday - Friday

Quick Links
	1	Contact Us 
	2	Pay My Bill 
	3	FAQs 
	4	Service Requests 
	5	Utility Rates 
	6	Employment Opportunities 

/QuickLinks.aspx
Helpful Links
	1	Available Credits and Deductions 
	2	IRA Savings Calculator 
	3	Contact Us 
	4	Accessibility 
	5	Copyright Notices 
	6	Privacy Policy 

/QuickLinks.aspx
Government Websites by CivicPlus®
[]
