
Skip to Main Content


Loading
Loading
Do Not Show Again Close


Create a Website Account - Manage notification subscriptions, save form progress and more.   
	•	Website Sign In

￼
	1	Residents
	2	Businesses
	3	Energy Savings, Rebates, and Ways to Save
	4	Safety Resources
	5	About MGED

￼
￼
￼
￼


Outage Center

￼ Search


	1	Home
	2	Energy Savings, Rebates, and Ways to Save
	3	Home Energy Saving Rebates
	4	MGED Weatherization & Insulation Rebates Details and Terms
MGED Weatherization & Insulation Rebates Details and Terms
What you'll need to know before you install or apply
￼Air Sealing Rebates are available. The Middleborough Gas & Electric Department is pleased to assist customers in making energy efficiency improvements to their home. Learn what measures make sense for your home by calling our Home Energy Hotline at 888-772-4242. Schedule a free Energy Audit and you'll be provided with a list of energy-saving recommendations. Complete any of the qualifying recommendations and receive a rebate for half of the cost, up to $500 for most measures, and up to $1,000 for insulation - not to exceed 50% of the project cost. Rebates for Low Income Rate customers are up to $750 for most measures and up to $1,500 for insulation - not to exceed the project cost.
To be eligible for the MGED Home Energy Improvement Rebate incentive:
	•	All qualifying measures must be recommended by a recent MGED/Energy New England Energy audit before installation.
	•	No added room or space (renovation or new construction) that adds to the home's heating load will be eligible unless new load is neutralized by increased insulation/air sealing in the other areas. This will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis.
	•	Work must be started and completed from January 1st to December 31st, for this rebate cycle. Work completed in the following year will be eligible for that year's rebate offering, if available.
	•	Qualifying measures must be listed on the audit report and include;
	•	Insulation, including Attic (& ventilation), Wall, Basement, and Rim Joist (up to $1,000 or $1,500 for Low Income Rate customers)
	•	Air sealing measures such as caulking, weather stripping, and gaskets (up to $500 or $750 for Low Income Rate customers)
	•	Heating system pipe and duct insulation (up to $500 or $750 for Low Income rate customers)
	•	The rebate will be sent to the customer. Please allow 6 to 8 weeks for processing. Limit one home-efficiency rebate per customer per calendar year. Multi-family homeowners may apply per unit, up to 4 units;
	•	Each application must include the original sales receipt and product information (and the final invoice from any contracted work with detailed specifications of work performed, if applicable). Proof of payment is also required.
	•	In order to qualify for the weatherization rebate from MGED, installed weatherization improvements must pass a quality assurance inspection provided by Abode Energy Management. In order to pass inspection, the home must not have any health or safety issues that are created by the installed weatherization improvements or that are pre-existing in the home and exacerbated by the installed weatherization improvements. These health and safety issues include but are not limited to:
	•	Issues with a heating system or other combustion appliance that will result in the accumulation of harmful combustion byproducts in the home
	•	Insulation in contact with electrical and/or heat sources that pose a fire hazard
	•	Inadequate ventilation in the home that poses a moisture accumulation and air quality risk. 
	•	These health and safety factors are consistent with building code and energy efficiency program requirements across Massachusetts. Installing weatherization measures in accordance with these requirements is the responsibility of the weatherization contractor or a subcontractor, if applicable. If health and safety issues exist in the home following the weatherization install, they will need to be resolved before a weatherization rebate can be provided by MGED. 
	•	Customers are strongly encouraged to work with one of the program's participating contractors included on the contractor list maintained by Abode.
To apply, follow these steps:
	1	Read the Terms and Conditions above to ensure you qualify for the rebate.
	2	Call the Energy New England toll-free hotline at 888-772-4242 to schedule your free Energy Audit. THEN complete recommended improvements.
	3	Prepare an electronic scan or copy of your itemized receipt(s) to upload online and include any contractor information including name, address, and phone number.
	4	Return to the main MGED Rebates web page and click on Ready to Apply beside the insulation rebate notice and follow the instructions on the Energy New England rebate page to apply online. Call the Energy New England toll-free hotline if you are having difficulty applying online.
	5	All applications and itemized receipts must be completed for current rebate availability.
	6	Customers are strongly encouraged to work with one of the program's participating contractors included on the contractor list maintained by Abode.
Read this handy section of the Energy Savers guide to learn more about Air Sealing and Insulating your home:

	1	Energy Saver Home Weatherization Guide (PDF)



	1	Cordless Electric Yard Equipment Rebates 
	2	Heat Pump Rebates & Resources 
	3	MGED Energy Star Appliance Rebates Details & Terms 
	4	MGED Weatherization & Insulation Rebates Details and Terms 
	5	Peak Alerts Let's You Know When to Beat the Peak 
	6	Lakeville Residents Only - Mass Save Eligibility 
	7	Additional Tax Incentives - Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) 


View Pay Bill
Energy Rebates
Forms


Moving In/Out
Payment Assistance
Where Do I Go For


	1	￼


Contact Us
	1	Middleborough Gas and Electric 32 South Main Street,  Middleborough, MA 02346  Phone: 508-947-1371  Hours:  8:00 am – 4:00 pm Monday - Friday

Quick Links
	1	Contact Us 
	2	Pay My Bill 
	3	FAQs 
	4	Service Requests 
	5	Utility Rates 
	6	Employment Opportunities 

/QuickLinks.aspx
Helpful Links
	1	Available Credits and Deductions 
	2	IRA Savings Calculator 
	3	Contact Us 
	4	Accessibility 
	5	Copyright Notices 
	6	Privacy Policy 

/QuickLinks.aspx
Government Websites by CivicPlus®
[]
